Local businesses around Lidgetton and Howick were unable to operate over the weekend after the Lions River community blockaded the road over electricity issues. The disgruntled community blockaded the R103 road just after the Nelson Mandela Capture Site on Saturday and Sunday morning as they demanded that their power be restored. According to uMngeni, the protesting community are supplied by Eskom and not the municipality. The municipality said the power utility, Eskom, has indicated that it will not repair broken transformers until residents in that area stop by-passing meters, overloading infrastructure and until people pay for usage. uMngeni council speaker, Janis Holmes, said a transformer in the area blew up on Wednesday morning. She said it is going to cost R150 000 for Eskom to fix the transformer. Holmes said they have been told that Eskom has refused to release funds to fix the transformer until it can be assured that 75% of the residences are going to be paying for the electricity. “Until they get that assurance and for people to pay their outstanding debt and remove illegal connections, they won’t be fixing the transformer. The entire community is without power. This includes those who are paying for electricity. This happens just after pay day and people’s fridges are full and now their food will be rotten, and they have lost a lot therefore they are angry. “On the other hand, Eskom is also not backing down and they are taking a hard line now and you can understand why due to funding issues. The problem is that this was done without consultation and proper communication with the community and the municipality,” said Holmes, adding that the community, schools, and businesses have been left without water as the pump relies on electricity from Eskom. She said they have also been made aware that events were planned for the weekend in the area and had to be postponed and people could not cook food. Holmes said on Friday pupils also had to be sent back home after there was no water and electricity in the schools. She said the municipality is aware that businesses had also been badly affected and they had engaged the police to clear the roads to allow motorists and tourists to pass. “We all know that weekends are the busiest periods for businesses in the area. Local farmers, tourism businesses and restaurants have been badly affected by this.” She said uMngeni is going to engage Eskom on the situation on Monday. A local business owner who spoke to The Witness on Sunday said the impact on his business was dire as he was forced to close out of fear of possible looting or violence towards staff. “Not only that, tourists and locals are not going near the area for fear of the same. My shop is right where they have cut everything off and the police don’t seem to be doing anything either.” He said it is bad enough dealing with the constant disruptions to tourism of truck accidents along the N3 in the area, now we have to deal with this. “It’s all becoming a bit much and the government just sits around and is doing nothing which is making everything else worse by the week. Sad really. Tourists only ever come up on weekends, even if it’s day-trippers from PMB or Durban. Also blocks any of the Howick residents coming out to buy food from us,” said the business owner. After a long standoff with the police, it is believed that the police spoke to the community, and they agreed to stop the protest on Sunday morning. However, they have threatened to resume with their protest on Monday at 6 am.