If it weren’t for delays in leaving a holiday programme at church, Bright Saurombe fears his wife and two children could have been crushed by the 24-wheeler truck that ploughed into his Boughton home on Wednesday afternoon. “My wife and children were supposed to be home at that time, but thank God they were delayed at a church holiday programme, otherwise they would have probably parked in the exact spot the truck hit,” Saurombe said, adding that was the first thing he thought of when his neighbour phoned him with the news. “I had already had a few misfortunes this week, so when I got the call I was shaken. I thought about my family and I tried to call my wife a few times and she did not answer. I then stopped calling and rushed home. I just wanted to get to my family,” said the distraught Saurombe. At the time of speaking to The Witness, Saurombe was watching the tow truck company recover the runaway truck that took out his property wall and crashed into his house after allegedly losing its brakes down Sweetwaters Road. He said he had just gotten home and was still assessing the damage, but from what he had seen, there was already extensive damage to the inside and outside of his house. “As they are moving the truck, I can see the whole carport has been damaged, the staircase, balustrades, rooms downstairs as well as the electricity meter box are all damaged, and I can see that we may need to call in a structural engineer to check the damage as this just looks terrible,” said Saurombe. By the time the wreckage of the truck was being removed, Saurombe said it may not be safe for them to stay in the house. He said his family had moved to their Linwood Drive home in 2017 and he has many treasured memories at the house. He added that Sanral needs to do something soon, as he is now the victim of a disaster everyone was holding their breath, waiting for it to happen. This follows after the continued mayhem and traffic congestion caused by the roadworks along the Town Hill section of the N3. Over the past week, Hilton and Old Howick Road residents and commuters have been raising concerns over the high volume of trucks that are diverting from the N3 and using the national alternate route. This week, the Hilton Community in Blue (CIB) volunteers have been actively trying to stop trucks from using Old Howick Road as an alternative route, fearing an accident down the sharp, bending corners, as well as the damage it poses to the already crumbling road infrastructure. “This has been ongoing now; we see trucks coming down this way as they cannot use the N3. An accident like this could have ended in death. I am so thankful that my family was not at home at the time. Those responsible must do something fast,” Saurombe said. He added that he was thankful to the hospitality of his neighbours and community, who are offering him assistance.