Despite Covid-19, the July unrest and floods, inflicting deadly blows on the KwaZulu-Natal economy, economic development MEC, Ravi Pillay, says the province remains resilient. “There is no doubt that Covid-19, the July unrest, and the floods had an impact. The tourism industry, which for years have been the bedrock of the KZN economy, [was badly affected]. “Yes, indeed, it was a major setback. But fortunately for us, the structure of the KZN economy — which is highly diversified, provides us with a unique competitive edge,” said Pillay. He said there was currently a slew of programmes in sectors such as agriculture, manufacturing, ocean economy and tourism, which the KZN government was highly confident would be major catalysts for the province’s economic recovery. He said: In 2022 shortly after the Covid-19 outbreak, the national government imposed a hard lockdown which saw the province’s economic sectors, particularly tourism, take some heavy blows. As the province was fine-tuning its economic recovery plan, the July riots broke out. These inflicted heavy losses on the KZN economy after mobs embarked on a looting spree causing damage to the tune of R25 billion. The scale of the looting seen during the July unrest, created a climate of fear amongst investors who had been planning to invest in the province. However, Pillay said the provincial government through a number of confidence-building measures, was able to restore business confidence. “The first step was for government, community organisations and other sectors of society to strongly condemn the looting. It was critical for all the sectors of society to take a firm stand against the looting and destruction of property. ALSO READ | MEC says KZN must focus on oil refineries to rebuild economy “As a result, we have seen an increase in the number of companies reinvesting in their existing operations. “There also have been a number of new investments,” he said. However, Pillay conceded that the looting left the provincial government with a mammoth task of reassuring the investor community that an event like the July unrest would not happen again. “It’s work in progress as the KZN society at large — not only the provincial government, but we can’t afford to have a situation where we are seen to be reneging on our undertaking to put all the necessary measures [in place] to prevent a recurrence of the July unrest. “There has to a social coherence. If that doesn’t happen, then the investor community will lose confidence,” he said. Apart from the impact of the July unrest, KZN was also battling mafia-style business forums whose members have been disrupting infrastructure projects. The members of the forums, who have been demanding a share of government contracts awarded to legitimate business, often resort to violence if the contractors appointed by government departments fail to meet their demands. Pillay admitted that the mafia-style forum posed a major threat to economic development in the province. “As the provincial government, we have an obligation to eliminate that threat. The mafia-style business forums should be confronted, and a clear message that hooliganism will not be tolerated, should be sent out. “We must ensure that the law takes its course,” he said. Members of the forums capitalised on perceptions that while the ANC-led government was doing everything in its power to fix the economy, it was only established businesses who stood to benefit from the multi-billion rands of infrastructure programmes currently being rolled out. However, Pillay said the provincial government’s economic recovery programme put women, the youth and the previously disadvantaged in general, at the centre. “If you go through the KZN economic recovery plan, it does not only talk about economic growth, it also places a lot of emphasis on the need to alter the current patterns of [business] ownership. “So, as the provincial government we don’t have an issue with those urging us to move with speed in the implementation of the country’s black economic empowerment policies. That’s government policy. “The problems arises when certain individuals in the name of black economic empowerment resort to violence and other illegal methods,” he said. ALSO READ | Trade and Investment Indaba showcases investment opportunities in KZN In February, government’s black economic empowerment policies came under the spotlight following the Constitutional Court’s ruling that the 2017 preferential procurement regulations were not in line with the country’s Constitution. The ConCourt ruling strengthened perceptions by some that the Constitution had become a stumbling block to the country’s economic redress project. However, Pillay said the ConCourt’s ruling had been misinterpreted. “The court didn’t say the government should do away with its black economic empowerment policies. “The concerns were around aspects of the 2017 preferential procurement regulations. That’s being addressed through the development of new regulations as well as the amendments to the relevant act,” he said. Pillay also dismissed claims that the Constitution was a stumbling block to black economic empowerment.