Employment and Labour Minister Thulas Nxesi has condemned the truck blockade saying it must be stopped and treated as the sabotage and staged crime that it is. This comes after disgruntled truck drivers embarked on a national strike this week, mainly against the employment of foreign nationals. ALSO READ | ‘Economic sabotage’: freight industry counts cost of truck blockades In a statement, Nxesi said the strike intends to cause disorder that the country does not require. “What the truck drivers are doing is an affront to the entire South African community and should not be taken lightly. These types of acts also result in the loss of life. The lives lost are far more important than any economic sabotage,” he said. According to Nxesi, President Ramaphosa has mandated an Inter-Ministerial Committee, (IMC) led by Nxesi and comprised of Ministers Fikile Mbalula of Transport and Aaron Motsoaledi of Home Affairs, as well as affected stakeholders, to address the concerns raised by truck drivers and small truck operators. Nxesi said this committee has been working hard to address these issues, holding a number of consultations with stakeholders such as truck driver representatives and small truck operators. In addressing these issues, Nxesi said they are mindful of the economic impact of any disruption to supply chains and freight logistics throughout the country and the Southern African Development Community (SADC) region. “As a result, we have made a firm commitment to address these issues in a way that ensures the long-term viability of our interventions. We have since mentioned that some of these interventions may necessitate a longer runway due to legislative changes. Nxesi said in February this year, the government formulated a comprehensive National Labour Migration Policy (NLMP). He said extensive research and an international benchmarking process were used to inform this process, which sought policy based on best practices. In April, Nxesi said officials from his department began a consultative process by holding national road shows across the country. “The road shows were held in each of the nine provinces, and they primarily targeted towns with a high concentration of migrants, employers, farmers, interest groups, and general members of the community. “During the consultation period, 456 written submissions were received. The department is currently synthesising and reviewing major recommendations to determine whether they require regulatory changes. “The department intends to complete synthesising the recommendations by the end of June this year, and then present a consolidated document at NEDLAC [National Economic Development and Labour Council] for a formal consultation with social partners,” said Nxesi.