Maritzburg United plan to announce a replacement for Ernst Middendorp in coming days, with a promise of more appealing football and better results. The battle-scarred German coach’s departure was confirmed early on Wednesday by the local club, despite his having one season left in his contract. Basically, the move resulted from the fact that Middendorp failed to achieve the club’s main target of a top-eight position in the just-completed DStv Premiership season. While the well-travelled technician seemed satisfied at avoiding relegation at the end of the challenging 30-match campaign, Maritzburg boss Farook Kadodia confirmed that the club’s board of directors had actually set a higher target for Middendorp of a finish in the top half of the standings. As it turned out, the “Team of Choice” finished in 12th spot in the 16-team standings, five points above the relegation zone, after a season of mostly conservative football. “The directors basically said they can’t keep putting money into the club only to see us fighting relegation again,” said Kadodia on Wednesday about the decision to part company with Middendorp, while Sekhukhune United were busy announcing Kaitano Tembo as their head coach. He added: However, Middendorp has been at the helm during three of Maritzburg’s relegation battles down the years, including consecutive ones over the past two seasons. He has had four spells with the modest club overall. In the season just finished, Middendorp’s men had the second-worst away record and the ninth-best home results, while scoring the same number of goals (22) as the four teams who finished below them in the standings. But conceding the least number of goals in that group helped Middendorp’s side avoid relegation. Kadodia said he is already involved in negotiations for a new coach and hopes to conclude talks in the next two or three days. He said the top candidate is not Fadlu Davids, as media has speculated. Davids, who made his name at Maritzburg as a player and coach in the past, was released by Orlando Pirates recently. Kadodia refused to give a hint about the person being negotiated with. Kadodia said: He repeated an earlier statement that the club plans to bring in about 10 new players for next season, having released eight from last season’s squad already. They currently have 16 players in their squad and the new coach will help with the recruitment of the new men, as well as decide what to do with technical personnel who are still part of the club following Middendorp’s demise. Meanwhile, Wednesday’s PSL Play-offs match saw Tuks register a 1-1 draw against Cape Town All Stars at home.