A man who killed his ex-girlfriend was on Tuesday sentenced to 25 years’ imprisonment after pleading guilty. Siphamandla Mlaba (34) pleaded guilty as part of an agreement, in the Pietermaritzburg high court, to the murder of Thembelihle Hadebe. She was killed on April 16 at Khethani, in Winterton, outside Bergville. In his plea, read out by Mlaba’s legal representative, advocate Pauline Andrews, Mlaba and Hadebe had been in a relationship for about five years. The relationship was acrimonious and they fought a lot, particularly in the last year of the relationship. Andrews said on the evening of April 15, Mlaba went to Hadebe’s home to talk to her about their problems. He knocked on the door and Hadebe refused to open it for him. Mlaba then broke down the door and entered the house. Mlaba asked Hadebe to show him where she had thrown their unborn children. She apparently had three abortions during their relationship without informing him. “Hadebe informed Mlaba that the unborn children were buried close to the Njisuthi river. Mlaba fetched a jacket from the wardrobe for Hadebe, as she was in her pyjamas,” said the advocate.  Just after 8 pm, the couple proceeded on foot to the river. They sat down close to the river and discussed their problems. She told him she didn’t know what was happening with her life and why she had the abortions. Mlaba was very angry at that time, the court heard, and Hadebe tried to run away, but he threw a stone at her. “He took the rope string from his jacket collar and strangled Hadebe. Mlaba kept the deceased in his arms, asking her not to leave. There was no response from Hadebe. Mlaba was shocked and nervous at what he did and didn’t know what to do. “He left Hadebe next to the footpath and left. Mlaba decided that he was going to commit suicide and returned to the river later that day; however, he didn’t. Later that same day, he called Hadebe’s friend and told her that he killed Hadebe,” said Andrews. Prosecutor Mbongeni Mthembu handed the court a victim impact statement in which Hadebe’s mother, Phindile Hadebe, described how the crime had affected the family.  “He had other children and they keep asking me every day when she is coming back and why she is not even calling them. The shock and trauma that the family suffered can never be measured,” she said. Judge Nompumelelo Radebe said from the post-mortem report, it is clear that this was a serious crime. The judge said since Mlaba pleaded guilty and did not waste the court’s time and resources, he was remorseful. She told Mlaba the amount of time he spends behind bars will ensure that he doesn’t kill other women. A sobbing Mlaba turned back to Hadebe’s family while in the dock and apologised. “I am very much sorry about what happened. It was never my intention and I want to apologise to everyone affected, especially the children,” said Mlaba.