In less than 48 hours after a fatal stabbing, another person was attacked and stabbed in Prestbury, Pietermaritzburg. A woman was attacked at the gate of her house and stabbed in what is believed to be an attempted robbery. The incident is said to have happened at around 5 am on Tuesday. This incident follows shortly after The Witness reported on Tuesday on a 64-year-old woman who was repeatedly raped by an unknown man who is also alleged to have stabbed her brother to death on Sunday afternoon. Pietermaritzburg police spokesperson Sergeant Sifiso Gwala said in the latest incident the woman was stabbed as she was taking out the rubbish. He said an unknown man approached the woman when she was leaving her rubbish outside her gate, as it was a collection day. Gwala said they suspect that the man wanted to rob the woman. “When the woman saw [the] alleged robber she asked him what he wanted. The man then went straight to the woman and stabbed her in the hand and fled the scene. “The woman sustained minor injuries and nothing was taken from her or her house,” he said. Gwala said the police are investigating a case of assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm and no one has been arrested. Ward councillor Ross Strachan said the woman has been left shaken. He said the criminal decay that was consuming the Prestbury community needed an immediate response from SAPS and the local police station must be beefed up with manpower and capacity. Strachan said the community needed to start taking extra measures in terms of security. “Many of the criminals are in close proximity or are commuting through the area in search of opportunities to commit crimes to relieve their addictions or situations. “The urban decay that has created a criminal infestation within Msunduzi has been left for far too long and the rising levels of unemployment, drug trafficking and just a general environment of corruption without consequences has left this city in ruin,” he said. Strachan said the community and the city needed to galvanise itself to tackle the rampant explosion of crime that they are confronted with.