An inquest docket has been opened at Mtubatuba Police Station, following the death of a 59-year-old woman who was allegedly mauled by a hippopotamus on Friday. This has been confirmed by SAPS spokesperson, Constable Thenjisiwe Ngcobo. Meanwhile, a statement released by iSimangaliso Wetland Park, said three people, including the woman, allegedly went into the nearby wetland, which is a habitat for dangerous wildlife such as crocodiles and hippos, to allegedly harvest Incema, African grass mat (Juncus), in the iSimangaliso Wetland Park without permission. “The two other individuals escaped unhurt during the encounter, while the 59-year-old woman was fatally attacked by a hippo,” read the statement. iSimangaliso Wetland Park spokesperson Bheki Manzini, said Incema season commences in May each year. During this time iSimangaliso and Ezemvelo engage with nearby communities including the Dukuduku community (where the dead woman comes from) to explain the process to be followed during the implementation of Incema harvesting for that season. “Part of this explanation includes making the community aware of the processes to be followed to ensure their safety from wild animals and to explain the duration of the harvesting season. “This community briefing session also advises the community on how they will need to group themselves as there would always be a dedicated field ranger with them for safety reasons. When the harvesting commences each individual is issued a permit specifying the dates of the harvesting season as well as additional conditions,” said Manzini. Manzini added that various meetings were held this year to discuss the possibility of Incema harvesting, following the bout of floods. “It was explained during these meetings that due to the high-water levels of the lake and surrounding wetlands which attract more dangerous animals it was decided that the Incema harvesting season will not take place,” said Manzini. He added that it came as a surprise when iSimangaliso and Ezemvelo officials were made aware of the attack.