Mondli Khumalo, the young KwaZulu-Natal cricketer who was left in a coma in England last week after an assault, remains on the road to recovery in hospital, but is still not able to breathe completely on his own. Jason Sathiaseelan, the chief executive of the KZN Inland Cricket Union to which Khumalo is primarily contracted, said on Tuesday that doctors have kept looking for positive signs from Khumalo in the hospital in Bristol. “What has been happening in recent days is that the doctors have been trying to get him to breathe on his own by taking him out of his induced coma from time to time,” he said. “Overall, he still has tubes running into his body, but the situation is far less critical than before. “However, while he continues to make progress, it is still too early to say when he will be released from hospital, considering that he still needs to be able to breathe on his own completely.” The 21-year-old bowler was assaulted on May 29 after going out with teammates and friends following a match for the Petherton Cricket Club, where he has been playing as an overseas international during the sport’s recess in South Africa. He had three operations to relieve pressure on his brain last week and started to move his limbs before the end of last week, but is reportedly getting agitated and trying to take his tubes out. Sathiaseelan said that on a positive note, two of Khumalo’s relatives finally jetted off on Tuesday to be at his side. The Pietermaritzburg-based cricket official was part of a group of people which helped make the travel arrangements for Khumalo’s mother, Maka, and uncle, Sakhile, from Durban. “It’s big a relief that they were finally able to leave today, after the hassles with passports and visas. What’s also very good is that families from Petherton Cricket Club will be helping them with accommodation, food and so on during their stay in England,” said Sathiaseelan. British media has reported that a 27-year-old man was arrested and released under investigation as police continue to investigate the assault.