The eThekwini Municipality has written off 657 assets comprising computers and furniture that disappeared from its offices. This was contained in a report presented to the eThekwini executive committee yesterday. According to the report, these assets had a total book value of R213 because most of them had long exceeded their term of use. The assets had not been found at municipal offices for periods between nine to 32 years. According to the report, the assets had a total historical cost (bought for) exceeding R5,8 million. Nicole Graham, DA eThekwini caucus leader, said there needed to be clarity on the time frames of when the assets were lost. Graham said it was “very difficult” to lose over a hundred computers in 12 years. “The way these reports are phrased makes it look like it is something that happened a long time ago and this is something we are doing to make sure the numbers balance. She said: Graham said it was concerning that physically large items like furniture and computers can just not be found. “If you lose 250 computers, they must have been stolen. “That many computers don’t just slip off the table and wedge themselves between the wall and desk so you cannot see them.” Sandile Mnguni, eThekwini Municipality’s chief financial officer, said computers in the municipality are replaced after three to five years. “They are taken to our disposal site and there is paperwork that is signed off to say we have received [and disposed] of these items. Unfortunately for these items the paperwork could not be located in order to confirm that these items were disposed of. “At the same time we are aware they are not available for use anymore because they have exceeded their use of life,” he said. Mnguni said he was first made aware of this by his team last June and after a year of searching for the equipment they had given up. eThekwini Municipality Mayor, Mxolisi Kaunda, said the City needed to improve its record keeping skills so that municipal equipment does not go missing without an explanation. “Records do assist us for accountability purposes so the system must be improved in that regard,” he said.