The Congress of the South African Trade Unions (Cosatu) and the taxi industry have distanced themselves from the national shutdown which is apparently planned for Friday. This comes after reports that Cosatu was planning a nationwide protest against fuel hikes on June 17. Cosatu KwaZulu-Natal leader, Edwin Mkhize, on Wednesday said the union took a resolution to have a joint meeting with the taxi industry to discuss a formal approach to the strike. “We met yesterday (Tuesday) as Cosatu and we agreed that we need to reach the 17th June with a clear resolution on how we should show our discomfort about the current fuel situation,” Mkhize said. He said Cosatu would convene a joint meeting with the South African National Taxi Council (Santaco) to discuss the form and content of the programme for June 17. “Officially, we as Cosatu are not involved in whatever will be happening on Friday. Santaco did indicate that they were willing to work with us, so hence the proposed meeting even though we are yet to decide on the date,” said Mkhize. Meanwhile, social media has been abuzz with reports about the proposed shutdown. There was also an unsigned notice which circulated with threats that roads are going to be chaotic and a no-go zone tomorrow due to the demonstrations expected nationwide. This has not been confirmed. Another notice alleged that members of several groups, including the National Taxi Alliance (NTA) and Santaco are also in support of the protest. However, Santaco provincial spokesperson, Mduduzi Makhunga, said they have not committed to participate in Friday’s protest. He said the strike action would mean “no business” for the taxi industry. Makhunga said: The Durban North and Umhlanga Community Policing Forum said they are working closely with the police and intelligence structures to confirm and verify details pertaining to the proposed shutdown. “There is nothing firm or confirmed by any party, organisation or official organisers at this stage,” the forum’s spokesperson, Darryl Oliver, said. “All key role-players have contingency plans in place, but we do not anticipate or expect any major or severe disruptions. We request residents to not share unverified [social media] posts regarding the shut down,” he said. The Pietermaritzburg and Midlands Chamber of Business said if the national shutdown goes ahead, it will deliver yet another blow to KZN’s struggling economy. The Chamber’s chief executive officer, Melanie Veness, said beyond the losses on the day, which will undoubtedly be significant, she is concerned that this might prove to be the last straw for some teetering investors. “It’s been a difficult environment to navigate in the last few years and appetite to do so is waning in some quarters. “A fuel price increase of this magnitude does have a significant impact on all transport — commuter and freight. “The fuel hikes hurt us all, and unfortunately it’s the poor that get hit the hardest, because of the relative percentage of their income spent on transport. “Businesses will have no choice but to pass increased transport costs on to their customers. “This will hamper competitiveness and restrict consumer spend, further constraining our ailing economy as customers and consumers are forced to make difficult choices,” she said.