Former president Jacob Zuma supporters will be intensifying their campaign to keep him out of prison. The former president’s supporters, who converged at his Nkandla homestead on Thursday for prayers meant to give him strength in the face of mounting legal challenges, vowed to crash what they described as a campaign to get him imprisoned. Addressing throngs of Zuma supporters, ANC KwaZulu-Natal MPL, Vusi Dube, who is also a church leader, said Zuma was being targeted by “counter-revolutionary forces”. “There are organisations in this country who have made president Zuma their project. They take turns in dragging him to court. Our message to them is that we are ready to defend him.” He said: Zuma is currently facing corruption charges in connection with his role in the arms deal in the 90s. The former president, who was recently released on medical parole after spending weeks in prison for defying a Constitutional Court order to appear before the Zondo Commission, could be sent back to prison. This is after another court found that his release from prison on medical parole was irregular. However, Zuma is currently appealing that court ruling. Zuma’s supporters, who arrived at his home in minibus taxis, private cars and on foot, were from various parts of the province. Nokuthula Ndlovu, a Songoma (traditional healer) from kwaMakhutha in Durban, said she decided to come to the prayer on learning that Zuma was about to be arrested again. “When they arrested him last year I was not happy at all. However I felt much better when they released him. She said: While Ndlovu arrived in her sangoma regalia, most of Zuma’s supporters who attended the prayer were clad in ANC colours. Despite the fact that Zuma’s legal problems appear to be worsening, his support in the ANC is on the rise. In the eThekwini region, Zuma’s ally, Zandile Gumede, was recently elected as the ruling party’s regional chairperson. In Zuma’s home region of Musa Dladla in Richard’s Bay, his other ally, Musa Cebekulu, was also elected as the ANC’s regional chairperson. Cebekhulu, who was accompanied by members of the ANC Musa Dladla regional executive committee (REC) told the crowd that the regional leadership was “fully behind Zuma”. “One of the resolutions we took during our regional conference was that we should as a region support president Zuma. The reason we took that resolution is that he is one of the people who sacrificed a lot for the ANC. Cebekhulu said: In 2018, the ANC national executive committee (NEC) issued a directive barring party structures from supporting Zuma in his legal battles. Cebekhulu told the crowd that the ANC Musa Dlala region has requested the party’s provincial leadership to review its directive. “Our position is that all ANC structures should be free to support president Zuma. “We need as many people as possible to support president Zuma, particularly given that he is dealing with a number of enemies,” he said. High-profile people who attended the prayer included Premier Sihle Zikalala, Health MEC Nomagugu Simelane, KZN Legislature Chief Whip, Super Zuma and former social development MEC Weziwe Thusi. While Zikalala and other high profile figures met Zuma inside the former president’s compound, the majority of Zuma’s supporters gathered outside his home left without his addressing them. This was because Zuma’s parole conditions do not allow him to address large crowds.