A Bulwer dam project of R600 million is compelling the Harry Gwala District Municipality to allocate a huge chunk of its capital budget to the Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma Local Municipality. This came to light after the Harry Gwala District Municipality mayor, Zamokwakhe Nxumalo, tabled his R865,7 million total budget for 2022/23 where he had to clarify why the Bulwer municipality seems to be getting a big chunk from the district’s budget, compared to other local municipalities. The Bulwer dam will be funded by the national Department of Water and Sanitation, as it is meant to be a backup and a permanent water solution within the district. It will supply water to the neighbouring districts such as Ugu. This is part of a cost cutting measures as the municipality rents dams from the neighbouring farmers as backups during dry seasons. Speaking at Bulwer Hall, Nxumalo said the project would start before June next year. He added: He added that negotiations for the project have received the green light from national government and are at an advanced stage. He revealed that this is a mission to ensure that they become the leading district in terms of water supply in the country since they also have plans to have a water testing/treatment plant in the district where they will not depend on Umgeni Water to test the status of their water. Opposition parties commended the budget adoption but the Democratic Alliance’s disputed the six percent tariff increase. The mayor said, “despite being a grant funded municipality, we are too rural; ... we do not have a viable revenue collection as the municipality is owed R239 million by the communities in terms of rates”. The DA added the rates should be fair, bearing in mind the municipality’s background and the current financial situation. Nxumalo said they want to collect at least 40% of the outstanding R239 million debt. The capital budget allocation to municipalities as per the division of revenue act is as follows: The Greater Kokstad Municipality (R35 million), Ubuhlebezwe (R70 million), uMzimkhulu (R101 million) and Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma (R113 million).