It’s become a struggle for Greenpoint Road residents, in Ashburton, to access their homes as there is hardly any tar on the road left to drive on. The road is one of many in the Ashburton and Lynnfield Park area that has reached the end of its life — a situation made worse by the recent flooding. Some of the roads leading to the area are so badly damaged they are inaccessible to light motor vehicles and can only be accessed by 4x4s. Residents of Ashburton and Lynnfield Park have accused the Msunduzi Municipality of failing to maintain infrastructure in the area. This included water and electricity infrastructure, which is crippling economic growth in an area with tourism potential. DA Ward 37 councillor, Edith Elliot, who is spearheading the drive to restore the roads, said the ratepayers feel forgotten and marginalised by the municipality. “After years of being included on the Integrated Development Plan (IDP) for upgrades, the Ashburton and Lynnfield Park road projects have never seen the light of day, due to the lack of interest and the prioritisation and diversion of the budget to other communities,” Elliot said. Elliot added that roads were poorly constructed without proper planning for any future development, and the primitive ditch drainage has further led to their rapid deterioration. This has left residents of roads like Greenpoint and the surrounding communities with catastrophic challenges. “Roads that have become non-negotiable, hazardous, and an embarrassment to the area have now created an inexcusable situation and challenge to the rate-paying community. “Greenpoint, Nyala and Bushbuck Ridge roads need immediate intervention. The lack of prioritisation of these old suburbs and the lack of interest in the residents of Ashburton and Lynnfield Park must be immediately addressed. Residents want to know when this crisis will be addressed as they cannot continue to be placed at the back of the queue,” said Elliot. Greenpoint Road resident Slindile Ngubane questioned why she is not getting the services she is paying for. “Why am I paying so much rates if I am not going to get the service I paid for? We have a big problem on Greenpoint Road, especially towards the end of it. There is no road anymore. I am not exaggerating. The road consists only of a bit of tar,” Ngubane said. Another resident, Ronald Hulley, said: “The municipality has money to waste on tar for speed humps but not to repair or upgrade our roads. These humps don’t come cheap.” ALSO READ | Deathtrap potholes multiply in Pietermaritzburg Rene Engelbrecht suggested that residents should come together and fill the potholes as is done in other small towns. “I’m sure a better job will be done,” she said. Elliot has called an urgent oversight visit with all the relevant municipal officials, together with senior managers to come up with a plan of action with anticipated time frames. Msunduzi Municipality spokesperson, Ntobeko Mkhize, said the ward councillor has reported this matter to the roads department and a meeting has taken place between municipal officials and the community. “The recent disasters affected the roads infrastructure, and [Greenpoint Road] is one of the roads that had already reached its life span and required rehabilitation,” Ngcobo said. 