Sardine run enthusiasts are getting their nets ready as they expect the shoals of slippery, silver fish to hit KwaZulu-Natal’s coastline very soon. “We’re expecting it any day now. It could be today, tomorrow, or the weekend. We’re waiting,” said seasoned netter Brahmanand Tony Outar. Zaff Hoosen, from the Seafood Market in Alpine Road, said the sardines will wash up soon. “The sardine run is normally determined by the water temperatures. “Normally, temperatures need to drop for the sardines to pass through but at the same time there have been a lot of sightings on the lower south coast near Port Edward ...” he said. Hoosen said the best place to catch the sardines is in Port Edward, as that is where it all normally starts. Greg Thompson, head of operations at the KZN Sharks Board, said they have conducted three sardine observation flights into the Eastern Cape to date. Thompson said last week’s flight was still hampered by poor water visibility for most of the coastline, especially in KZN due to the latest flooding. He said: The activity continued throughout the flight to Hole in the Wall where large groups of bottlenose and common dolphins were seen moving north with numerous shoals of sardines close to the backline in some areas,” he said. Thompson said these indications are still positive that the sardines are making their way up from the Eastern Cape towards KwaZulu-Natal, especially when you take the increase in shark activity at Grosvenor into consideration. He said there is also a good possibility that they may have missed activity further north towards KZN due to the poor visibility. “However, there have been many occasions in the past when predictions and opinions have been totally incorrect. “These fish can move through in the deep or in the discoloured water that we are experiencing at the moment, out of sight of most of the predators and arrive in KZN without warning. Then there is always the possibility that they continue moving north on the deeper line and we don’t get to see them at all,” said Thompson.