The DA in Msunduzi Municipality visited Azalea residents whose homes were damaged by a severe storm in December 2021. The storm left gaping holes in their old asbestos roofs. Hannah Shameema Winkler, the DA’s constituency head for Msunduzi, said the oversight revealed that the conditions under which these residents — especially the elderly, sickly, and vulnerable — continue to live have deteriorated well past the level of what is acceptable to human dignity and well-being. She said the ongoing exposure to water leaks, which continue to cause damage to property and dampness leading to mould infestation, poses a significant health risk to residents. Prior to this oversight visit, Shameema Winkler said the DA Chief Whip in Msunduzi, Bongumusa Nhlabathi, had submitted a letter to the general manager of sustainable development and City enterprises in Msunduzi requesting an urgent follow-up to what were “hollow promises” allegedly made by the MEC for Human Settlements, Jomo Sibiya, and other officials during their visit to the affected area in January this year. “On this official visit, MEC Jomo Sibiya promised residents that the roofs would be replaced within 10 days. Two days later … officials returned to Azalea Township to take measurements and assess the damages. “To date, there have been no repairs to the houses or roofs despite desperate calls from residents, neither has there been any feedback. ‘The callous treatment of Azalea township’s long-suffering residents by the municipality is unacceptable,” she said. Shameema Winkler said they are waiting for a response from the municipality on questions about the roof repair project, the role and involvement of Msunduzi Municipality’s Human Settlements in the project, and what the time frames for the roof repair project are. “Should a prompt response not be forthcoming from Mr Nxumalo, as the DA we will escalate the issue to the provincial MEC and if necessary to the national Minister of Human Settlements. “The health and human dignity of this community must be restored as a matter of urgency,” said Shameema Winkler.