Education MEC Kwazi Mshengu said reconciliation cannot happen if people are not honest about what happened in Phoenix during the July unrest last year. “For us to really build true social cohesion and non-racialism, we have to first acknowledge the facts as they happened. “For me it was a massacre of African people and what is important is for us to move forward to make sure what happened never happens again,” he said. A confirmed 37 people were killed in Phoenix during the unrest, with 34 being black and three Indian. Mshengu was speaking in Inanda on Thursday, where the KZN Education Department launched the social cohesion programme through a sports, arts and culture festival. The programme involved eight schools from Phoenix, Inanda and other surrounding areas who were engaged in a variety of games, from football and netball to debating, among others. The activities were preceded by a candle lighting ceremony at the Ohlange High School. It is almost one year on since the July unrest and Mshengu said it was important to mark its anniversary with an effort to mend race relations between African and Indian people in Durban. He emphasised the need to start teaching young children from an early age about racial tolerance and cohesion. He said: Popsy Pillay from the KZN Parents’ Association said their organisation has been conducting a lot of youth outreach programmes since the unrest. She said these programmes were focused on social cohesion, but also on understanding how extensive the impact of the unrest was on race relations in Phoenix. “We endorse these kinds of programmes because when you look at what is happening in schools with regards to violence and a break in race relations, it is absolutely imperative,” she said. Pillay said there was no doubt that the trust between communities in Phoenix and surrounding areas had been “broken” and needed to be amended. “Sports is a very good way of healing, especially when it comes to the youth. This is one aspect, but more needs to be done regarding youth dialogue, race relations and how a perspective of trust can be fostered between various races.”