Three people were arrested for alleged poaching inside the Hluhluwe iMfolozi Park in the northern KwaZulu-Natal. This was confirmed by the Ezemvelo KZN Wildlife on Sunday, which said the trio were arrested before they could kill a rhino. The first man was arrested on June 6 and two others were caught two days later. These arrest bring the number of alleged poachers caught inside the Hluhluwe iMfolozi Park this year to five. “The Park has been under siege since the beginning of 2022. The park at times has to deal with three to five different groups of poachers who enter the Park from different directions at more or less the same time. “To date, 123 rhinos have been poached in KwaZulu Natal in both public and private game reserves,” said Ezemvelo KZN Wildlife spokesperson, Musa Mtambo. He said the first man that was arrested on June 6 was picked up by the Ezemvelo camera and the field rangers, assisted by K9, were deployed to track him. “When he saw a chopper he decided to run and took off his t-shirt in an attempt to blend with the bush. “Unfortunately, the dogs had already seen him and were on top of him before he could implement his escape plan. It is common for poachers to try to hide from the Ezemvelo chopper by removing their clothes,” said Mtambo. He said the two men who were arrested on June 8 had recently travelled from Mpumalanga Province and were staying at a house not too far from the Hluhluwe iMfolozi Park. “The proximity of the house to the Park provided the two with an advantage point to observe everything that was going on inside the Park. They were not only able to monitor the field rangers on foot patrol but were also able to scan the movement of rhinos inside the park,” said Mtambo. He said the Ezemvelo field rangers, who were on the early morning foot patrol, noticed footprints and decided to call the Ezemvelo K9 Unit to follow the tracks to where the men were hiding. Mtambo said when the alleged poachers heard noise from the rangers who were approaching, they fled with their rifle, leaving behind a bag and a few of their items on the ground. “A decision was immediately taken to call for a chopper and additional assistance from Wildlife College’s K9 Unit that currently providing training to Ezemvelo K9 Unit at Park. The two suspects were arrested in the afternoon. They were found with a .375 rifle,” said Mtambo. They appeared in court on Friday and their case was postponed to Monday, June 12. “Our improved and random deployment of field rangers, as well as the presence of SAPS inside HiP have made it difficult for would-be poachers to fully understand our movements. The K9 Unit is also proving to be a welcome addition to our fight against rhino poachers. I trust that these recent arrests will provide us with enough information to make more arrests.” Ezemvelo acting CEO, Ntsikelelo Dlulane said. In another incident, He said three have appeared at the Hlabisa Magistrates Court and are expected to return to court this week. Ezemvelo Acting CEO, Ntsikelelo Dlulane, said their improved and random deployment of Field Rangers and the presence of SAPS inside the Park had made it difficult for would-be poachers to fully understand their movements. “The K9 Unit is also proving to be a welcome addition to our fight against rhino poachers. I trust that these recent arrests will provide us with enough information to make more arrests,” said Dlulane. To date, 123 rhinos have been poached in KwaZulu Natal in both public and private game reserves.