With nominations for candidates at the upcoming KwaZulu-Natal provincial conference underway, Premier Sihle Zikalala has officially been endorsed by his branch. The ANC Million Meyiwa Branch in Ndwedwe — where Zikalala hails from — over the weekend nominated him as its preferred provincial chairperson candidate. Meanwhile, treasury MEC, Nomusa Dube-Ncube’s ANC branch of ward 45 in eThekwini nominated her as its preferred chairperson candidate. ALSO READ | KZN ANC regions likely to unite behind Zikalala After weeks of speculation, results from the two ANC branches gave early indications on who the running mates for Zikalala and Dube-Ncube were. Zikalala’s Million Meyiwa Branch wants the current KZN education MEC, Kwazi Mshengu, to be the province’s next deputy chairperson and the current ANC provincial secretary, Mdumiseni Ntuli, to be returned to the post. They also wants Nontembeko Boyce, the current KZN Legislature Speaker, to be the provincial treasurer. While Dube-Ncube’s branch is yet to consolidate its candidate list, it endorsed ANC Kokstad Mayor, Bheki Mtolo, as its provincial secretary candidate. The results from the two branch general meetings (BGM), are confirmation that the supporters of Dube-Ncube — who is currently the party’s provincial treasurer — want her to challenge for the ANC top provincial position. Dube-Ncube’s eThekwini ward 45 branch secretary, Simiso Mkhize said leaders of the branch, which include Kwamashu’s L section where she comes from, would embark on a campaign to convince other branches in the province to endorse her. Mkhize said: “This province has in the past produced solid leaders of the ANC who have, at all times, put the interests of indigenous people on top of the agenda. “Cde Nomusa Dube-Ncube will follow in the footsteps of the great leaders of the ANC,” he said. On the other hand, the secretary of Zikalala’s branch, Nosihle Simelane, described the Premier as a “tried and tested” leader. “Cde Sihle Zikalala led a provincial executive committee (PEC) that was able to finish its term without chaos. “He led a PEC that was united and without divisions. To date he has run an administration with a track record of less incidents of corruption. “Under his collective, the name of the province is synonymous with inspiring ideas and innovation,” she said. Other ANC members tipped to contest for the provincial chairperson position, include former eThekwini mayor, Zandile Gumede, former KZN provincial government director general, Nhlanhla Ngidi and AmaZulu FC chairperson, Sandile Zungu. The provincial conference, which is part of the ANC’s preparations for the party’s December national conference, is scheduled to take place from July 15 to 17.