Police report a shocking 22.2% increase in murders in the first three months of 2022, leaving them with no answers about the reasons for the sharp increase. The country’s crime stats were released by the Minister of Police Bheki Cele on Friday. These reflect on crimes that occurred during the fourth quarter of the 2021/2022 financial year, between January and March. Cele said 1 107 more people were killed in South Africa between January and March compared to the same period in 2021. He said out of the 6 083 people killed in the country, 898 of them were women and 306 were children under the age of 17 years. Alarmingly, he said, the murder of children recorded a 37.2% increase in the period of reporting. Cele said arguments, vigilantism, revenge or retaliation and robberies remain the top four causative factors of these deaths. “A total of 2 268 people were murdered in public places such as open fields, streets, parking areas and abandoned buildings. The second most likely place for murder to occur is at the home of the victim or of the perpetrator. He said 1 350 people were killed in that environment. “Liquor outlets and public transport such as buses, taxis or trains, were the third and fourth most likely places to be killed in South Africa,” said cele. Cele said overall crimes committed against a person also known as Contact Crimes, increased by 15.0% He also said all Sexual offences recorded a 13.7% increase with contact sexual offences recording the only decrease in this crime category. “In the first three months of this year, 10 818 people were raped in South Africa. Almost half of the cases, a staggering 4 653 rapes, took place at the home of the rape victim or the home of the rapist. Public parks, beaches, streets, open fields, parking areas and abandoned buildings were the second most likely places for rapes to occur. Liquor was involved in 1 290 of the rapes,” said Cele. Cele said the Eastern Cape’s Lusikisiki Police Station, Inanda Station in KwaZulu-Natal and Delft Police Station in the Western Cape recorded the highest incidents of rape for this quarter