Two Pietermaritzburg models have been chosen as the Top 10 Miss South Africa finalists. Ayanda Thabethe (22) from Taylors Halt and Luyanda Zuma (20) were announced as the top 10 finalists on Monday evening. Apart from representing the City of Choice in this competition, Thabethe and Zuma are also representing KwaZulu-Natal as they are the only two woman in the province who made it into the top 10. They will be competing against Anarzade Omar, Itumeleng Parage, Keaoleboga Nkashe, Lebogang Mahlangu, Luvé Meyer, Ndavi Nokeri, Pearl Ntshehi and Tamsyn Jack. The Miss SA pageant is back in Gauteng, with the 2022 winner set to be crowned during Women’s Month on Saturday, August 13. Thabethe who is a final year BSc student in Dietetics and Human Nutrition at the University of KwaZulu-Natal, says she is delighted that both the KZN Top 10 finalists come from Pietermaritzburg. “I think our home town will be thrilled that both Luyanda (Zuma) and I have made it. Interestingly enough people think that there is a rivalry between the two of us because we come from the same place but it simply isn’t true – we are supportive of each other as are all the wonderful 30 contestants I have got to meet on this journey. “The Miss South Africa journey to date has been incredible and not what I expected at all and I mean that in the best possible way.” Luyanda Zuma who is an international model, entrepreneur and final year Bachelor of Live Performance student at AFDA which is a private tertiary institution, said, “I am thrilled to have made the Top 10. I struggled with self-acceptance when I grew up and being put into a certain category that I didn’t want to be in. It took a lot for me to love myself and show others that it is possible to follow your dreams and chase your heart. “There must be something in the water in Maritzburg: I am thrilled to be continuing on this journey with Ayanda (Thabethe). We don’t regard each other as competition but rather as pillars to strengthen each other because we are working towards the same goal.”