The Hawks are reported to be hot on the heels of a senior councillor of one of the local municipalities in the uThukela District. The councillor, whose name is known to The Witness, is alleged to have been involved in a cash-in-transit heist which happened on Wednesday. However, this is yet to be confirmed by the Hawks who are handling the case. It is alleged that on Wednesday, three money truck security guards were travelling in an armoured vehicle from Estcourt to their Ladysmith base when they were ambushed about 10 km outside Estcourt on the R103. On Thursday, two suspects were arrested in connection with the incident in Esctourt. An undisclosed amount of cash is believed to have been found on the suspects, and most of the money was damaged. The money will be sent to the forensic lab to determine if there is explosive residue on it. It’s believed that a search was also conducted at the councillor’s home, but this is yet to be confirmed. The arrested suspects will appear in the Estcourt Magistrates Court on Monday. Attempts to get comment from the councillor were unsuccessful. The mayor of the council, whose name is being withheld, said he heard about the rumour that the councillor was wanted by police, but was surprised that he has not been found yet. “Something is just not right about this. “[On] Thursday, I delegated him to handle a meeting as I was in attendance of Salga business. I left him ... in my board room. This morning I was with him and this afternoon I won’t go to bed without speaking to him. So, where have the police gone to look for him? “The man is hands-on in his job so I see no reason why it should be difficult for the police to find him. In fact, they should have come to his office if they were looking for him during the day and to his home if they were searching for him in the evening. “I smell some dirty politics at play here, but let’s wait and hear his side of the story. When I heard about this and asked him, he said he hadn’t heard anything, even from the police,” he said Provincial police spokesperson Constable Thenjiswa Ngcobo referred The Witness to the Hawks. Hawks national spokesperson Nomthandazi Mbambo said she was unable to confirm the involvement of any other person besides the two suspects that have been arrested. “The investigation continues and as soon as more concrete evidence has been gathered that links any other person/people, such information will be communicated.”