Cape Town All Stars claimed an impressive 2-1 win over Swallows FC in the Premier Soccer League (PSL) promotional/relegation play-off match at Danie Craven Stadium on Saturday afternoon. The win saw Igugu Lekapa end their unsuccessful play-off campaign with a victory as they came from behind to defeat the Soweto giants with Ronaldo Maarman and Ndiviwe Mdabuka scoring for the hosts. Despite the defeat, Amaswaiswai’s ambitions of retaining their status in the South African top-flight are still alive, having failed to hold onto their lead after scoring through Grant Margeman against All Stars. ALSO READ | Usuthu announce 10 new players for next season, more on the way Swallows remained second on the play-off standings — one point behind leaders, the University of Pretoria with the two teams set to meet in Tshwane on Wednesday. The winner of this final match will book their spot in the elite league for the 2022-23 season. Although Igugu Lekapa threatened first through Thabo Makhele, who failed to hit the target from close range with a header which flew just over the crossbar, it was Amaswaiswai who created the better chances. Goalkeeper Kyle Peters had to produce a fabulous finger-tip save to deny Lehlogonolo Matlou. The All Stars shot-stopper then pulled off a fantastic diving save — blocking a left-footed shot from Dillon Solomons as the visitors looked to break the deadlock. The deadlock was finally broken in the 63rd minute when Margeman fired past Peters with a low long-range shot to make it 1-0 to Swallows. The All Stars technical team then introduced Maarman, who went on to make an impact as the 22-year-old forward beat keeper Jody February with a rasping long-range shot to make it 1-1 in the 88th minute following a mistake by Wandisile Letlabika, who had given away possession in his own half. It was then end-to-end stuff, with Mbulelo Wambi being fantastically denied by Peters. The hosts were awarded a penalty at the other end in stoppage time after Letlabika handled the ball in the visitors’ box and Mdabuka beat February from the spot-kick to seal All Stars’ 2-1 win.