“Mom, we’ve got to do something.” It took a compassionate 14-year-old to get the community into action, delivering over 700 hot meals and water to truck drivers stranded on the N3 near Hilton and Howick, following yet another fatal N3 crash on Thursday. While driving alongside the N3 towards Howick on Thursday night, watching the snaking queue of stationary trucks, Kian Lister’s heart was moved to sympathise with the suffering of the truck drivers, stuck on the road with no food, water or place to rest. “I imagined how hungry, thirsty and tired they must be. I’d had three meals that day I was still feeling hungry,” Kian said. When he told his mom, “we have to do something to help them”, Kian had only envisioned buying some water and muffins for some of the drivers stuck on the highway adjacent to their Hilton home. His humble urge to help, however, ended up rallying the Hilton community to reach out to the famished, dehydrated and exhausted truckers stuck along the N3 from Hilton, backlogged as far out as Mooi River. Responding to her son’s request, Kian’s mom, Karen Lister, contacted Aliwal Security director, Sewraj Girdhurparsadh, for assistance, en route to the shop to buy hot dogs, fruit and water. She also posted an appeal on the Hilton Chat Facebook group, which garnered over 1 000 messages of support, and donations towards hot meals and water for the truck drivers. Girdhurparsadh responded to the call, bringing his whole team along and placing bulk orders of hot pies from four local garages in Hilton, as well as chicken tikka and breyani from a supplier in Northdale. Donations soon started pouring in from the Hilton community towards the costs of the meals, while others dropped off food donations on the side of the highway, where Lister, Kian and the Aliwal Security team were stationed. Kian, a Grade 8 pupil at Grace College, spent the first day of his June holidays on the side of the N3 assembling hot dogs from the boot of the car, which the Aliwal Security team helped distribute along to all the truck drivers, as well as a few travellers who had suffered a very rough start to their holiday. The united efforts resulted in over 700 drivers being fed a warm meal on an icy winter’s night. They also received water, fruit and other food items being distributed. Lister and her son, remained on the N3 from 11.30 am to 8.30 pm on Friday. “Only being there, at the scene, witnessing the extent of the traffic jam, did I start to realise the magnitude of need,” Lister said, adding how “immensely proud” she is of her compassionate son. “No adult thought of the needs of the truckers. It took an empathetic 14-year-old to make a difference. My son has the most empathetic nature and is always looking out for others.” Kian said he was overwhelmed at how the community had come on board. “The community’s support made me feel like I had actually made a difference.” ALSO READ | Slow moving traffic on N3 near Peter Brown intersection, Pietermaritzburg Lister said the relief provided “was just a drop in the ocean” compared to what the truckers and drivers stuck on the road experienced. “It was heartbreaking to see how grateful the drivers were for our humble relief. “The drivers were so exhausted, but there was no place for them to rest,” she said, adding that the community’s response reaffirmed Hilton residents’ capacity to give. “Our plea went viral and majority response from the community was positive. “People generally love to attack the truck drivers and blame them for everything that goes wrong on the highways, but the problem is due to a lack of visible policing. “The logistic industry is the backbone to our economy. “What would we do without them?” she questioned. Girdhurparsadh echoed Lister’s sentiments, saying, Aliwal Security’s core business is securing the transportation of the logistics industry. “Us helping was also a way to support and give back to the industry my business feeds off. “People have no idea the far-reaching impact these highway closures have on the economy. “Due to the export and import delay fees, the effects on not only the national, but global economy are catastrophic. “If these inconveniences aren’t resolved, the transport sector will start utilising other ports and KZN will become a ghost [province]. “Tourism is already going south, if logistics goes too, we will have nothing else,” he said, adding that active visible policing is the only solution to the N3 crisis. “We need active law enforcement on the ground. Installing cameras won’t work. I have witnessed how having active visibility polices drivers into behaving. That is the only solution.”