A University of KwaZulu-Natal fourth year student, Mohamed Hoosen Suleman is flying the institution’s flag high on the global stage. He was selected for a prestigious changemaker scholarship in Geneva, Switzerland. The fourth-year student is one of three medical students globally, who were selected for the scholarship to attend both the Youth Pre-World Health Assembly (Pre-WHA) and World Health Assembly (WHA) held at the World Health Organization’s (WHO) Headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland. According to a statement released by the university, Suleman’s selection is not only a proud moment for South Africa but for the medical youth voice worldwide. “He formed part of the official youth delegation to the WHO. The WHA is the WHO’s highest decision-making body that is attended to by world leaders and delegations of its 194 member states. A detailed agenda on global health is discussed with a plan of action on priority health areas that countries should focus on is decided in the meeting,” read the statement. The University describes him as a student who truly embodies its core principles and ideals of Inspiring Greatness. “Suleman personally met and interacted with the Director-General of WHO, Dr Tedros Ghebreyesus. “He also met and engaged with Ministers of Health of different countries and gained insight into the health challenges in different parts of the world. He describes the experience as overwhelming, given that he was probably the youngest in the room,” read the statement. According to the statement, Suleman was also asked to present to the delegation on “Health Emergencies: Preparedness, Response, and Recovery in the South African context”. He further highlighted how South Africa continues to play a leading role in the global response to the COVID-19 pandemic. UKZN has recognised Suleman as one who possesses the fundamental values of Respect, Honesty, Trust, and Excellence which are key to the University’s structure and organization and an inspiration to other medical students. Suleman is well regarded for his academic excellence and display of intellectual prowess at the Institution. “He holds multiple awards and accolades in the medical field. “The decorated medical student was awarded UKZN’s Best Student Researcher and Best Student Innovator last year,” read the statement.