KwaZulu-Natal police have launched the specialised multi-disciplinary economic infrastructure task teams to address the scourge of economic infrastructure related crimes. The EITT was launched at Durban Central Police Station on Monday morning. According to the police, the teams will focus on non-ferrous metal theft such as copper cable theft, essential infrastructure crimes such as tampering, damaging or destroying of infrastructure related to energy, transport, water, sanitation and communication services, and critical infrastructure crimes such as pipeline fuel theft. Provincial police spokesperson Brigadier Jay Naicker said the teams will also focus on extortion at construction and or economic sites, and the combating of illegal mining and illicit trafficking. Naicker said three teams were formed that will be dealing with these crimes and they will be based in eThekwini, Umgungundlovu and King Cetshwayo districts where these crimes are most prevalent. He said the teams consist of various disciplines from the SAPS, government departments, other law enforcement agencies, state owned entities, cellular telephone providers and the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation. “EITT’s will ensure the integration of operational processes, resources and intelligence across all operational environments of the SAPS under a single command in order to successfully address economic infrastructure related crimes and extortion in a coherent and synergised manner,” said Naicker. Police said the launch follows the State of The Nation Address on February 10 where President Cyril Ramaphosa said, the ongoing damage to and the theft of economic infrastructure has damaged confidence and severely constrained economic growth, investment and job creation. At the same time, said Ramaphosa, there was a need to confront the criminal gangs that invade construction sites and other business places to extort money from companies. He said this requires a focussed and coordinated response. Addressing the launch, deputy provincial police commissioner Major General Phumelele Makoba, urged all role-players to work together in an integrated manner to stem the scourge and bring the perpetrators to book. “We are convinced that the perpetrators of these crimes are repeat offenders and we need to strike a blow to these criminal syndicates and bring an end to the theft and destruction of our essential infrastructure,” she said.