The KwaZulu-Natal government wants the missing flood victims presumed dead, if there are no prospects of finding them alive. The search is still on for the victims, but the province is engaging the justice department to facilitate the presumption of death process. KZN Premier Sihle Zikalala on Sunday said even though the search and rescue teams were still on the ground, the presumption of death would be used as the last resort to assist families to find closure. “Sadly, we still have 23 unidentified bodies with DNAs not collected. Eighty-seven people are still reported missing with 6 895 being homeless and 50 injured,” he said. He said the SANDF withdrawal would happen in phases, but the specialised teams, including engineers, would remain on site. Zikalala was addressing the media after his visit to displaced families, some of whom have since been placed into temporary housing structures. So far 206 temporary residential units have been built with the number of families to be accommodated being more than 4 396. It has been two months now since the province was hit by the April floods which left housing and infrastructure networks damaged to the value of R25 billion. He said: “We are also told that 33,2% or more than a quarter of all dwellings in the city are informal structures and this excludes rural dwellings. This poses a major challenge to the recovery programme and calls for a long-term approach which will protect our communities from such emergencies in future,” said Zikalala. He further confirmed that there was no outstanding application from the province either for short-term humanitarian support or long-term reconstruction. He said all the applications were submitted to the national government via the National Disaster Management Centre on May 9 and 15 for all damaged infrastructure in KZN. “In summary, our provincial Disaster Management Centre has made an application to the National Disaster Management Centre for short-term humanitarian relief support to the tune of R1 billion. “Further to this the province has made a request for R12,656 billion for the municipal response and R5,157 billion for the provincial response. This brings the total applied for to R17,813 billion for KZN sector departments and municipal damages,” said Zikalala. He said the province received acknowledgements to this effect, with independent verification of its application having been done by the Municipal Infrastructure Support Agent (MISA) and the Department of Water and Sanitation specialist engineers. Current indications are that the floods have affected a total of 85 280 people, with 461 fatalities. “In all, a total of 27 069 households were affected with 8 584 houses totally destroyed and 13 536 partially destroyed. “Even though the restoration of water and electricity has reached over 90% overall, there remains a number of hotspots in the province,” he said. He said in Ilembe, KwaDukuza Water had no supply to the power generation plant due to plant repairs and this was affecting Shakaville and Lindelani. Damage to KZN transport infrastructure from the recent floods amounted to R6 billion, including the M4 and R102.