Sobantu residents have called on law enforcement to leave no stone unturned in the investigation into a man who allegedly killed a grandmother, her daughter and grandchild on Monday evening. Zanele Ndlela (65), her daughter Smangele Ndlela (46) and her grandchild Zenande Ndlela (eight years old) were killed. It is believed that the three family members were strangled. Their lifeless bodies were discovered by a family member just after 8 pm. A 29-year-old man was arrested in connection with the crimes. He was allegedly the last person seen with the family. A group of community members gathered outside the Pietermaritzburg Magistrate’s Court yesterday where the man was due to appear. However, he did not appear and, according to police officers close to the case, this is due to further investigations. The man is set to appear in court on Thursday. Community members, however, picketed outside the court and called for justice, demanding that the man not be given bail should he choose to apply for it. A resident, Busisiwe Mbokazi, said they are demanding that the police do a thorough investigation so that the man remains behind bars for a long period of time. Mbokazi said residents are angry about the brutal manner in which the murders were committed. “We are angry and as you can see, the majority of people here are women as this raises serious concerns about our safety. We also have young children and when criminals are entering our houses and killing people, it’s serious. As a community we want to see ourselves protected by men. We don’t want them to see us as a sexual object and when they are done, they kill us,” she said. Mbokazi added they will be supporting the family and will always be in court to ensure that justice is served. Residents are also collecting signatures that they will submit to court, demanding that the man not be released should he apply for bail. Bishop Vusi Dube, from the KZN Legislature, who was also outside court with the residents, said he was also shocked about the incident. Dube said this was a clear indication that people, especially men, no longer had Ubuntu. “I don’t know how we can describe this issue and it is a mistake to even call him a man because of what he did. We have engaged the KZN MEC for Social Development, Nonhlanhla Khoza, so they must come and visit the family. “We will come together as pastors tomorrow [today] and go to the family to give them prayers,” he said. Dube also called on community members to remain calm and allow law enforcement agencies to conduct their investigation.