Road users have been urged to be vigilant as high winds, mist and freezing temperatures are expected along most parts of the N3 toll route from July to October. According to the N3 Toll Concession (N3TC), the cold fronts may bring icy weather, sleet and snow, especially in high-lying areas. These conditions place extra pressure on drivers and may lead to delays as roads become hazardous and congested, it said. N3TC said together with all other road incident management services, they are on high alert to mobilise at short notice should the need arise to assist with clearing of the road surface in the eventuality of snow or the formation of black ice. “Motorists can assist emergency services by being ready for any eventuality. Ensure that you have extra blankets, food, refreshments, a torch and emergency medication in your vehicle. These items may help to keep you safe and comfortable in the event of an emergency,” said Thania Dhoogra, N3TC’s operations manager Dhoogra said the threat of destructive veld fires also increases during the winter months, particularly from July to October. She said drivers should immediately adopt defensive driving techniques when approaching fire or smoke across the road. “Proceed with caution if visibility remains good, but if there is heavy smoke from the fire obscuring visibility, it is advisable to pull off as far away from the road as is possible – before reaching the smoke. Please do not panic and attempt to stop, reverse or alight from your vehicle,” warned Dhoogra, adding that this could cause a serious crash and further risks. She said many motorists believe it to be safer to undertake long road trips at night because of reduced traffic. However, she said, driving at night presents unique challenges and increased risks. She said these include reduced visibility, compromised night vision, a phenomenon known as “drowsy driving”, as well as a diminished ability to judge speed and distance. Criminals may also use the cover of darkness for their nefarious activities, making it unsafe to stop next to the road in the event of vehicle trouble or fatigue, said Dhoogra.. “If you have no choice but to travel at night, we urge you to exercise caution, to plan your routes carefully, and to only stop at service stations or truck stops. It is also a good idea to let others know which route you are taking and when you should be expected at your destination,” added Dhoogra.