Vandalism, aging infrastructure and the lack of maintenance have been attributed as the main reasons behind the serious water shortages in the Ugu District Municipality in the South Coast. This was revealed by KZN Premier Sihle Zikalala, who said the municipality must divert most of its finances to the water department and ensure that the provision of water remains uninterrupted. Zikalala was speaking during a special imbizo on Tuesday, to provide feedback on the water turnaround plan for Ugu following several engagements hosted with stakeholders in the district and entities of government. The district has been facing serious water issues for years, with communities, businesses, hospitals and schools left without water for weeks. On Monday, residents blocked the R102 in uMzumbe, near Hibberdene, demanding an uninterrupted water supply. They also said there were not enough water tankers servicing the area. The premier said the major water provider in the district has been facing serious damage to its infrastructure. This includes the Bhobhoyi Water Treatment Works, where the municipality had to work with the police to safeguard the infrastructure, he said. Zikalala said another problem was that the water infrastructure at Ugu is very old and struggling to meet demand due to the population growth. He also cited a serious lack of maintenance of the water infrastructure. “There are people who vandalise the infrastructure such as pipes which affect the water supply. “There are also people who vandalise the electricity infrastructure such as cables ... we are also faced with people who vandalise our infrastructure just because they want to connect illegally,” Zikalala said when the province tries to intervene by providing water tankers, some people deliberately burn them. In 2019, more than 19 water tankers were set alight at one of the depots. “There are people who are taking us backwards whenever we are trying to find a solution,” said Zikalala. He added that as part of the plan to curb the worsening water problem in the district, there must be a reprioritisation of funds towards water infrastructure. Government will be working towards building new dams and increasing the capacity of the current dams, he said. He encouraged businesses and communities, including government departments, to pay for water services. The municipality must ensure that they provide water tankers to all affected communities, he added.