As children are spending more and more time glued to their screens, parents are warned of the effects of exposure to harmful and inappropriate content. Rachelle Best, a mother and founder of the FYI: Play it safe app, is hosting online webinars to offer parents an opportunity to dive deep into the dangers lurking on their children’s mobile devices and how they can actively monitor screen time without being invasive. Best said with children being continually online, more so as many schools were forced to go online during the pandemic, it means they are exposed to some level of risk. Best said: “Children are smart, smarter than their parents. They can find loopholes with parental controls quicker than we can implement them,” she said. According to research from Common Sense Media, Best said screen time for tweens, aged eight to 12 years old, has increased in the last two years to five hours and 33 minutes a day. “That equates to 40 hours of screen time a week. That’s like a typical working day ... “Yes, academics contributed a significant increase in screen time among children with lockdown and schools moving online, but that’s still too much,” she said. She said the average age for smartphone ownership has significantly decreased. In 2021 more than 30% of eight-year-olds already owned a phone. In South Africa, 51% of children between the age of eight and 18 years old, have seen sexual content in the last year. She said one wonders what the correlation is between what children are exposed to online and the guidance they receive from parents and teachers. Despite there being advantages to children using the internet, such as fostering friendships, authentic support, giving them a voice, expressing creativity and gathering information and research, Best warned of the damage and sexual dangers they’re exposed to every time they’re on their devices. Best said there are online predators waiting to gain the trust of your child. She said she recently spoke to the mother of a 12-year-old girl who was being harassed by a strange man with WhatsApp calls. She said it started from a spelling vocabulary online game. The mother hadn’t realised that the app also paired her daughter with strangers to play the game with. “After being paired with the same person several times, the person started messaging her on the app and when she got comfortable, she shared her number with him and gave him her real name and where she goes to school. “This happens everywhere. We have to teach our children that people are not always who they say they are on the internet,” she said. Best said many of us believe that age restrictions on apps mean apps were developed for certain age groups and if an app has an age restriction of 13, it means that any child 13 years and older is okay to use it because they won’t be exposed to any content or situations that are not age-appropriate. She said: “So it’s easy to just add the 13+ age restrictions because they don’t need to get the parental consent. “It’s important to use the apps they use, play around and see what they see,” she said. In a webinar with parents on Thursday, Best demonstrated how some apps, including Telegram, Omegle, OnlyFans and Chat42Online, were still exposing teenagers to strangers and sexual content despite setting the parental guide controls on 13 years old. She urged parents to use parental restrictions, implement screen time and learn to communicate better with their children so that parents are the go-to people if their children become uncomfortable online. Best explained that the FYI Play it safe app is a monitoring mechanism that children need to consent to, that runs in the background of your child’s device and monitors what’s going on, on the screens of their devices. If the app picks up any harmful content, such as adult content, online predators, cyberbullying, exposure to sexual content, self-harm, depression or any signs of suicide, it alerts parents by sending a screenshot.