The eThekwini Municipality will propose a R100 a month flat tax to all households in rural areas to pay for services. This was announced by eThekwini Municipality Mayor Mxolisi Kaunda during his state of the city address on Tuesday. Kaunda said rural areas under the municipality have seen rapid population growth over the past few years which has led to an increased supply of services like water, electricity and refuse collection. Kaunda said: He said the municipality will be presenting this proposal to the Ingonyama Trust Board, the Zulu royal organisation that owns most of the rural land in Durban. “The provision of basic services in rural areas continues to be an unreachable target because of the movement of people from the urban areas to the rural areas,” said Kaunda. Nkosenhle Madlala, ANC eThekwini executive committee member, said the R100 tax was a good start in raising money for service delivery in rural areas. “We think this is going to assist to fund development in these areas and to ensure these areas feel like they are part of the city, as they are,” he said. In his lengthy speech, Kaunda lauded eThekwini’s “ANC-led” government for rising to the challenge of the recent devastating floods. Kaunda said the floods damaged a lot of critical municipal infrastructure which will take billions of rands to fix. As a result, Kaunda said the city’s new budget for 2022/23 will focus more on capital projects and rebuilding the city’s water and electricity infrastructure. According to the 2022/23 draft budget, the city will spend R2,2 billion on electricity infrastructure. Kauda said: He said the city was still losing over a billion rand annually to illegal electricity and water connections. Kaunda said the city will be increasing its efforts in electrifying more houses to stop illegal connections. Mduduzi Nkosi, IFP eThekwini caucus leader, said the mayor’s address did not reflect the reality on the ground. “People are tired of hearing what the city will do but want to actually see it happening,” he said.