Text messages instructing uMngeni residents to pay their municipal bills are not a scam. This was confirmed by the municipality after a number of residents shared screenshots of the messages they received on social media as they were unsure the texts were really from uMngeni or part of a scam. Some social media users were advising residents to be careful before making the payments and to rather contact the municipality. One of the residents advised: Some of the messages made reference to “summons to appear at court” and further asked residents to pay their municipal bills to an account number provided on the text. uMngeni mayor, Chris Pappas confirmed to The Witness that the messages were not a scam, saying they came from the municipality’s debt collectors. “There are four different debt collector companies so the messages could differ slightly. They are not a scam. They are people that have been calling as well and residents must not think it’s a scam. This is part of the municipality’s debt recovery plan. Those who cannot afford to pay their debt must come forward so that we can assist them,” said Pappas. One of the residents who received the message said she got a fright when she saw it. “I knew I owed the municipality for rates. It had been tough times for many of us since the pandemic and the cost of living increasing. I ignored the message but have been advised by a friend to rather speak to the municipality to avoid any legal issues,” said the resident, who asked not to be named. In addition to debt collection, one of the biggest challenges for uMngeni has been electricity losses which amounted to about R85 million. This has been mostly due to electricity theft. “As we continue to tackle electricity losses, we have also decreased the cost of converting conventional meters to prepaid meters and we have also committed to replacing broken or old meters free of charge for those who are indigent,” said Pappas. He said since the new council took over the uMngeni office as the administrators, they were able to collect R16 million from outstanding debtors and have increased their cash on hand from six to nine million rand. They have also registered more people on their indigent database and those on the database will be getting 100% rebate as well as a 100% rebate for child-headed households. The municipality also approved its budget of R537 million for the 2022/2023 financial year on Tuesday.