A Pietermaritzburg teacher, who features in a trending video shot at a local KFC, has set the record straight about what really happened and apologised for using a racist slur. A two-part video is doing the rounds on social networks of a Pietermaritzburg woman having a go at a fellow customer at the Northway KFC. In the first video, the livid woman, who is using vulgar language, is heard telling a man who is at the back of the queue that she cannot go to the counter as another customer is still there. In the second video, the woman is heard telling the man that she will not be threatened by him as she is not the submissive type and that she can fight him. Many social media users expressed shock at her level of anger and her use of a racist term and vulgar language. The woman later took to TikTok to “set the record straight” and apologised to those she offended. Speaking to The Witness on Thursday, the woman, who asked for her name not to be published, said the incident happened three weeks ago at the KFC in Northway. She said the video was one-sided as it only shows the time when she snapped, and not how the argument started and how the man she was arguing with allegedly swore at her and used a racist slur. “I was in the line minding my own business. The [man] in front of me was paying for his order, there was one person at the till serving, the line was long, and everyone was waiting.” She said someone else was still at the till-point when another man, who she alleges was drunk, became “rowdy” and was pushing her to go to the till. “I literally told him, ‘can you wait because the [man] is not yet done’… he continued to tap on me harder… the man literally swore at me for being impatient and I got upset and flipped,” she said. She said: The woman said she believes that the person who posted and is circulating the video is trying to sabotage her image and her career. “Again, I do apologise to whomever I offended but I’m in the same boat,” she said. KFC is yet to comment on the matter.