Greater Kokstad Municipality mayor, Bheki Mtolo, says the secret to good governance is respecting ratepayer’s money, ethics and commitment to service delivery. Mtolo said this on Wednesday during an exclusive interview with The Witness after Kokstad received a report on retaining the top spot as the best performing municipality in KwaZulu-Natal. Kokstad was also rated in the top 10 nationally by the Good Governance Africa (GGA), a non-profit organisation (NPO) focused on researching, advocating and improving governance in the continent. Kokstad has been ranked among the best since 2017 by independent agencies and the national Department of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs, which rated the municipality as the best performing in the province through its evaluation process which zoomed into the performance of about 205 municipalities across the country. Mtolo said the key to good governance is respecting the public’s funds and abiding by the budget policies as well as ensuring that long-term plans become a reality. He said theirs is not an easy task as Kokstad is not grant-funded but depends on revenue collection for its survival and provision of services. This comes with challenges, he said, as businesses and residents are still recovering from the impact of Covid-19 and related lockdowns where most struggled to pay their municipal rates. He also credited the municipal workers and councillors for their dedication and commitment to serve the community of Kokstad. “We have also set a good example in dealing with the corrupt officials and that remains a lesson to anyone who might be tempted to committing fraudulent and corrupt acts,” said Mtolo. Greater Kokstad’s municipal manager, Sipho Zwane, said critical to the functionality of any municipality is good governance, sound financial management, effective oversight as well as a disciplined and motivated personnel. The African Independent Congress and the Democratic Alliance agreed with the assessment of Kokstad as a winning municipality.