uMngeni Municipality plans to crack down on traffic offenders who avoid paying their fines. The municipality has allocated an amount of R200 000 in the 2022/23 financial year to invest in a Number Plate Recognition Trailer (NPRT) with hopes that it will assist in executing warrants of arrest. A report that was recently tabled at the uMngeni’s community service portfolio committee meeting revealed that the payment of fines was low compared to the value of fines issued by traffic officers. In May, 384 section 56 fines were issued while 10 section 341 fines were issued. They were valued at over R290 000, but none of them had been paid by the time the report was tabled at the portfolio meeting. This was said to be one of the many challenges faced by the municipality’s traffic department. The acting mayor, Sandile Mnikathi, said the municipality issues Section 56 fines for traffic violations and Section 341 fines for by-law infringements. Mnikathi said: Apart from this, the department also has a shortage of vehicles, with only two out of the four currently working. Traffic and licensing manager Xolani Nhlangulela asked the community portfolio committee to intervene. “At the end of the day, I am expected to perform at my best with only two vehicles. Complaints are coming from all corners and to attend to them is becoming difficult. I have a challenge because I do have officers but I don’t have vehicles to transport them to conduct patrols,” said Nhlangulela. He added that he didn’t want to be seen as a failure when he had not been provided with all the necessary tools to conduct his work effectively. Mnikathi asked for the recommendations to be taken up to the executive committee meeting and full council for a budget allocation to purchase vehicles for the licensing department. Meanwhile, the municipality has also budgeted for a feasibility study report to establish a driver testing ground. A civil engineering consultant will soon be appointed to establish feasibility of the testing ground, which is expected to be at the Howick sports ground. Mnikathi said the establishment of the testing ground will also contribute to municipal revenue.