As Statistics South Africa (Stats SA) released the latest data showing a record rate of unemployment, a 28-year-old woman was allegedly raped by a man who promised to arrange a job for her on Tuesday in Verulam, north of Durban. Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa) said they were contacted by a Gannet Crescent resident, in Dawncrest, just before 11 am on Tuesday after the woman arrived at his home asking for help. The woman told Rusa officers that she met a man at the entrance of Trenance Park who befriended her. She said she told the man that she was looking for a job and he said his employer was seeking casual staff. He did not confirm the nature of the job. “The suspect then received a call from an unknown person. During the conversation, he informed the caller that he had someone for employment. At that point, she believed that the man was a good Samaritan and agreed to accompany him to the place of employment,” said Rusa. While walking through Dawncrest, the man allegedly produced a firearm and instructed her to go into a dense bush where he raped her. He also allegedly robbed her of her Mobicel cellphone before he fled on foot. The woman walked through the bush and ended up on Gannet Crescent where she asked for help. Reaction Unit officers searched for the man who was dressed in black jeans, a grey and white shirt, a white cap and grey sandals but could not find him. Rusa said no arrests have been made. On Tuesday Stats SA announced that the official unemployment rate increased by 0,4 of a percentage point to 35,3% in the fourth quarter of 2021 — the highest since the start of the Quarterly Labour Force Survey (QLFS) in 2008.But the expanded unemployment rate — which includes discouraged work seekers who have given up looking for work — fell by 0,4 of a percentage point to 46,2%.The number of employed persons increased by 262 000 to 14,5 million, while the number of unemployed persons also increased by 278 000 to 7,9 million. Formal sector employment increased by 143 000 jobs, while the informal sector shed 48 000 jobs.