An Ethiopian-owned shop was looted in Clermont on Sunday evening. Shopkeeper Tagse Lamore said before closing time on that evening, a small group of people surrounded his container shop and tried to gain access. Lamore said after the group failed to break into the shop, three men pointed guns at him and instructed him to open the shop. “When I opened the door, I stood aside and more people came from everywhere into the store. They took all the stock, everything my shelves are empty now so I don’t know what I am going to do,” he said. Lamore said police came shortly after the looting and dispersed the crowd but did not take a statement from him. He said the looters did not physically harm him. The businessman has been trading in the area for over two years and has been staying in South Africa for four years. He said the first time his shop was looted was last July during the civil unrest. However, Lamore stated that all shops in the area were looted in July whereas in this instance his shop was the only one targeted. On Monday he was reinforcing the security barriers in his shop. He told to The Witness that he was planning on replenishing his stock and continue to sell in the area. Lamore said he knew about the botched plan to launch Operation Dudula in the Durban city centre on Sunday, but did not think it would affect him. On Saturday, the Weekend Witness reported that refugee services warned foreign nationals in Durban to not open their shops last weekend and to stay at home for their own safety. Operation Dudula is a movement that started in Johannesburg where a small group of people have been forcibly closing shops belonging to foreign nationals in the townships and city centre. The movement was set to have a similar operation in Durban on Sunday but it was cancelled due to security reasons. Community members who spoke to The Witness anonymously said the looting at Lamore’s shop was down to people being mischievous. Parboo Sewpersad, eThekwini Metro Police spokesperson said he was not aware of the incident while SAPS had not responded to The Witness queries by time of publication.