To curb the spread of foot and mouth disease, the movement of livestock in uMkhanyakude, Zululand and King Cetshwayo districts, in northern KZN, will be prohibited for five years. This was revealed by the KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Agriculture and Rural Development, Bongiwe Sithole-Moloi, during a vaccination site visit at Ebukhipha Deep Tank, near KwaHlabisa, on Friday. Sithole-Moloi said as a government, they would conduct random roadblocks in all the affected areas to ensure that communities complied with the movement prohibition. She said: Sithole-Moloi called upon the law enforcement agencies to aid in the campaign to quell the spread of foot and mouth disease by actively ensuring compliance with the movement ban. She said as a government, they understood the impact the ban would have on the livelihoods of cattle owners but insisted that curbing the spread of the disease should take priority. More than 1 600 cattle were earmarked for vaccination with half of them getting the vaccination on Friday. Sithole-Moloi decried the stock theft which is apparently prevalent in the area saying it frustrated the efforts to stop the spread of the disease. “The customary payment of lobola using livestock during marriage negotiations is also responsible for spreading the disease to other areas,” she said. Bongani Gina, a local stock owner, said the vaccination of livestock has brought much-needed support to the rural communities. Gina said: He said the response by the livestock farmers to a call by the local veterinarians, who alerted the farmers about the disease, should be applauded. Bhekisana Mbatha, chairperson of uMkhanyakude District Livestock Association, said the vaccination would stop the spread and rescue the local economy because the livestock movement ban affects the owners, who depended on the proceeds of sales for subsistence. He said that stock theft should be combated head-on by the law enforcement agencies to ensure that it did not derail the government’s efforts. The vaccination campaign would be rolled out to other areas that are at a high risk of infection, added Sithole-Moloi.