KZN Premier Sihle Zikalala appealed for calm and peace at the Mbuyazi traditional authority after a protracted feud among family members. The feud started after the death of Inkosi Mtholeni Mbuyazi in 2005, who had nine wives and 43 children. On Sunday, Zikalala visited the area and convened a community imbizo (meeting) to give an update on the latest developments in the traditional leadership dispute. His move follows a decision of the high court in favour of Mkhanyiseni Mbuyazi to be the Inkosi (chief) of the Mbuyazi community. The Mbuyazi matter has been to the high court and the Supreme Court of Appeal a few times. According to a statement by Zikalala’s office, on June 2, 2021, the department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) was informed that the matter had been finalised at the Pietermaritzburg high court with the order favouring Inkosi Mbuyazi. Addressing the community, Zikalala said the end of the longstanding dispute would bring peace and attract further investment into the area. “Without stability, there will be no development and the people of KZN will forever be victims of poverty, inequality and unemployment,” he said in the statement. The KwaMbonambi community is close to the multi-national company Richards Bay Minerals (RBM) and the instability over traditional leadership in the area has been cited before as contributing to disputes which end up affecting operations at RBM. “We are now at the end of a state of instability and uncertainty in the area. Peace and harmony must return to this community. We must do all in our powers to rebuild and renew relationships of trust that have been broken since the beginning of this dispute. Now it is time for this community to leave the past behind and to rally behind the new Inkosi, to open your hearts to a new future for all the people of kwaMbuyazi. This is a time to strengthen collaboration with neighbouring communities and the local and international investor community in rebuilding this corner of our province,” said Zikalala. He said it was his honour to introduce Inkosi Mbuyazi as the rightful heir to reign over the Mbuyazi traditional council. Zikalala said: Speaking during the imbizo, Inkosi Mbuyazi acknowledged the leadership dispute as a historical inheritance and pleaded tolerance and peace among the family members. “There were some disagreements between myself and my eldest brother about who should take over after our father’s passing. “I’m grateful that the matter has been resolved and I urge all of us to work together to build this community,” said Mbuyazi.