The matter of the Zondi brothers accused of murdering five members of a family, including a two-year-old and a month-old baby in Boston, is set to be heard in Pietermairtzburg High Court. The pair, Khulekani Zondi (35) and Mhlonishwa Zondi (22) appeared in the Richmond Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday. The brothers had their bail application denied earlier this month after they pleaded not guilty to all charges. They are facing five counts of murder, four counts of kidnapping, as well as malicious damage to property, robbery, theft and defeating the ends of justice. The court was packed to full capacity as the family members of those who died in the attack were present in court, while others also waited outside the court. The state asked that the matter be postponed to May 16 where the two will be getting their letters, with their summoning date to the High Court. On November 16, 2021, five members of a family were kidnapped in Boston, and were reported missing at Boston SAPS. Among the missing persons was a three-month-old child and a two-year-old child. On 13 December 2021, the burnt and severely decomposed bodies of Sizwe Mauris Ngcobo (64), Thandazile Zondi (41), Bonokwakhe Khuboni (40), Fanelesibonge Ngcobo (2) and one-month-old Libra Ngcobo from Zizabantu Farm, were found in a forest in Richmond. During the bail application, the investigating officer Sergeant Nhlanhla Mzimela said all family members, including the babies, had their throats slit before they were set alight with petrol. Mzimela said there were six people involved in the murders. He said with the brother arrested, one man has turned to be a state witness, while three other men are still on the run and being sought by police. One of the family members who asked not to be named said they are eagerly waiting for justice to be served to find peace. “We hope that during the trial, we will be able to get more details about what happened and also hear from that state witness, who was present during the murder, to hear what he says,” said a family member.