KwaZulu-Natal’s Dr Makhosi Khoza is out in the cold after her party, ActionSA, terminated her membership on Monday. In a statement on Tuesday, the party’s national spokesperson Michael Beaumont said ActionSAs senate resolved to terminate Khoza’s membership during a meeting held last night. The decision was informed by the party’s recommendations of its ethics and disciplinary committee. “Following a series of public outbursts in January, ActionSA instituted a disciplinary inquiry into the conduct of Dr Khoza, with charges including bringing the party into disrepute, deliberately acting in a way that negatively impacts the party and acting in a manner that causes disunity in the party. “A disciplinary panel was convened, chaired by advocate Gill Benson (former acting judge) and prosecuted by ActionSA’s Western Cape provincial chairperson, Vytjie Mentor. The Ethics and Disciplinary Committee was unanimous in finding Dr Khoza guilty on all charges and recommending the termination of her membership,” said Beaumont in the statement. He said the evidence brought against Khoza included numerous public utterances and comments made to the media which were deemed to have been made with the intention of bringing ActionSA into disrepute. “There is no reasonable explanation for her continued abuse of the party, which she purports to promote. As a high standing member of the party, she disregards the reputational damage to the party, for apparent publicity and self-gain. Her loyalties do not lie with ActionSA and instead, lie with aspiring to grow her own political aspirations, at the great cost of her constituency and ActionSA,” he said. He said evidence before the panel demonstrated communication with ringleaders of a group of dismissed members from Soweto who had previously been found to have acted to deliberately destabilise the party. In this communication Khoza and the ringleader of the group are said to have been plotting to “deal with” Mashaba. This conversation took place in close proximity to a protest by these former members outside the City of Johannesburg’s council chamber in which they could be heard chanting Khoza’s name. “In the 24-page report, the disciplinary panel indicated that Dr Khoza had not challenged the evidence placed before the panel and the panel had no choice other than to consider the case in terms of whether the conduct of Dr Khoza could be excused. In this respect the panel found Dr Khoza to be prone to conspiracy theories, aggressive behaviour and even continuing to threaten the party with threats to damage its reputation further. “ActionSA is pleased that its internal institutions have proven effective in addressing this matter in a manner that is fair and in a manner that was decisive. As a party we cannot guarantee the conduct of our members, this lies with their ethics and values. What we can assure all South Africans, is that unacceptable conduct will be identified and addressed both fairly and decisively,” said Beaumont.