The ANC’s Moses Mabhida region, on Wednesday released a statement in which they commented on an article on page 1 of The Witness, titled “City set to splurge on luxury cars” published on Thursday last week. “Reporting on a matter that has never been discussed by the council’s executive committee (Exco), and without even giving relevant stakeholders an opportunity to comment is mischievous and deliberately misleading,” read the statement. “The article’s intention proves to merely sell newspaper ... and also to rubbish individuals who are committed to turning the city of uMsunduzi around. “We, as Moses Mabhida Region, are totally opposed to any form of unnecessary extravagance, and are acutely mindful of our current fiscus and its impact. However, we are also aware that the conditions of the vehicles that are currently being utilised by the Principals of Msunduzi Local Municipality require attention. “They have, on numerous occasions, experienced breakdowns which have posed threats to their lives. As a vital tool of trade for the municipal officials, in meeting the needs of their hectic diaries, we are confident that this matter will be addressed in line with regulations that state the threshold limit for purchase of vehicles, and in accordance with the VIP Protection Unit security considerations. “As evinced by the recent significant improvement in service delivery across Msunduzi, the ANC commends and supports its deployees in their endeavours for prudent expenditure of public resources and vigorous efforts in turning our municipality around. ALSO READ | Msunduzi set to splurge on luxury cars “We will continue to stand firm in condemning greed, corruption, selfishness, and wasteful expenditure under any circumstances wherever it raises its ugly head.” The ANC’s Moses Mabhida region called on The Witness to “withdraw the whole article and publish an apology for publishing misleading information to the public”. Mzimkhulu Thebolla is both the ANC Moses Mabhida regional chairperson and the mayor of Msunduzi. The article in The Witness stated that the City was considering buying the luxury cars for Thebolla, his deputy Mxolisi Mkhize and the council speaker, Eunice Majola. We wrote that if this proposal is approved, it would cost in the region of R3,8 million. Msunduzi sent The Witness a similar letter to the statement above and a reply was sent to them, stating that the mayor had agreed to being interviewed on the subject. ALSO READ | Nquthu mayor in a fix after splurging on luxury cars In fact, on Thursday last week, The Witness offered Thebolla an opportunity to comment on the article. He agreed to this. Subsequently, the reporter has tried to get hold of him numerous times — all to no avail. Thebolla also has the contact details of the reporter concerned. On Wednesday, when The Witness again tried to contact Thebolla to respond to the article, he said he was in a meeting and would call the reporter back. By the time of going to print, he had not yet phoned. The Witness believes the Exco report is in the public interest and therefore the newspaper has a responsibility to report on its contents.