President Cyril Ramaphosa announced that as of Wednesday, masks will no longer be necessary in outdoor settings. Ramapahosa was speaking during an address to the nation last night where he further eased a number of restrictions, as the country moves towards lifting the national state of disaster. However, Ramaphosa said masks would still be required indoors such as in malls, public transport and offices. When walking in the streets or in an open space, exercising outdoors, jogging or attending an outdoor gathering, masks would not be necessary, said Ramaphosa. Ramaphosa said in deciding which restrictions to ease and which to keep in place, he was guided by the advice of the Ministerial Advisory Committee on Covid-19. He said they’ve also looked to the experiences of other countries, including those where the complete lifting of restrictions has been followed by a surge in infections and deaths. Ramaphosa said based on numerous consultations and the recommendations of the National Coronavirus Command Council, Cabinet decided to ease several restrictions as part of the adjusted alert level. “The approach going forward is that both indoor and outdoor venues can now take up to 50% of their capacity, provided that the criteria for entrance are proof of vaccination or a Covid test not older than 72 hours. “But where there is no provision for proof of vaccination or a Covid test, then the current upper limit will remain at 1 000 people indoors and 2 000 people outdoors,” he said. Ramaphosa said the changes to the restrictions on gatherings will be of great benefit to the sporting, cultural, entertainment and events industries in particular. He said the maximum number of people permitted at a funeral will increase from 100 to 200. As before, night vigils, after-funeral gatherings and “after-tears” gatherings are not allowed, he said. Social distancing regulations are also being changed, requiring that a one metre space is maintained between persons in all settings except schools. “There are also changes to the regulations on international travel. Travellers entering South Africa will need to show proof of vaccination or a negative PCR test not older than 72 hours. All unvaccinated travellers entering the country who want to be vaccinated will be offered a vaccination,” he said. Ramaphosa said with these changes, almost all restrictions on social and economic activity will have been lifted. He said going forward, the most important defences against the disease are, firstly, vaccination and, secondly, the observance of basic measures, such as wearing masks indoors. Ramaphosa said:  “Vaccination is likely to reduce transmission at home and at places like schools and universities where there is close contact. Therefore, while we welcome the fact that more than 68% of people older than 60 years have been vaccinated, we are concerned that only 35% of people between 18 and 35 years have been vaccinated. “It is vitally important that we get many more of our people between 18 and 35 years vaccinated,” he said. Ramaphosa also urged those who are still unvaccinated to get their dose and also those who are vaccinated to get their booster shot.   