One person jumped out a window and at least five people suspected of being illegal immigrants were arrested during overnight raids in Durban. A multidisciplinary team including eThekwini Municipality health and safety officials along with Metro Police and SAPS officers carried out surprise raids on five “bad buildings” in the city centre on Wednesday evening. The buildings have been identified as non-compliant to the City’s health and safety protocols. All buildings that were raided were found to be non-compliant and a safety hazard. Some of the buildings did not even have a fire escape and only one gate to enter and leave. A 10-storey building on 84 Maud Mfusi Road was found to have illegally connected electricity and no running water. Anita Vanner, a tenant who had been living in the building for over a decade, said her children were traumatised by the incessant police raids on the building. Vanner said police usually raid the building in search of drugs. Tenants of the building were seen carrying water up the steps using buckets. A building on 63 Bertha Mkhize (Victoria Street) was suspected to be hijacked and an illegal clothing factory. When the building was raided, one person jumped out the window from the first floor and another attempted to hide themselves under a mountain of clothes. Hoosen Moolla, Senior Manager of Inner Thekwini Regeneration and Urban Management Programme (iTrump), said the raids are done on a monthly basis. Moolla said they would not be closing or demolishing these “bad buildings” as they are targeting landlords not tenants. “If we get these buildings regenerated, it will ensure there would be continuous rates contribution from a sustainability point of view,” he said. Moolla said it would be a “disaster” if there were to  be a fire in the buildings they raided. “We want to send a strong message to the property owners that the city is ensuring there is going to be compliance and we are also going to be using other punitive measures by changing the rates code and multiplying it by nine to hurt them in their pockets,” said Moolla.