Premier Sihle Zikalala has demanded answers and accountability from officials and community leaders after an incomplete multi-million rand fresh produce tunnel project was abandoned in Maphumulo, on the KZN North Coast. The project, which was launched in 2020, was left incomplete after an investment of about R8 million. Zikalala made the discovery when he visited the area on Wednesday as part of Operation Sukuma Sakhe, which saw executives crisscrossing all wards in the Maphumulo Local Municipality. The fresh produce tunnel project was led by local co-operatives and supported by government, which assisted with infrastructure, mentorship and potential markets such as schools, hospitals and local enterprises. The project is strategically located not too far from the Dube Trade Port for ease of exporting to international markets, but now appears to have turned into a white elephant of wasted government investment. It is believed the project collapsed due to internal squabbles over its ownership and control, leading to the multi-million investment being washed down the drain. On Wednesday Zikalala expressed concern that the project amounts to wasteful expenditure, and is testament to poor management and lack of accountability. He said: “We want projects like this to unlock opportunities and lead to economic transformation as part of the next phase of our struggle for economic liberation. We therefore frown at what we are seeing here as it amounts to an assault on radical socio-economic transformation.” He said government did its part in providing support, however, local internal ructions among beneficiaries resulted in the project’s collapse. “We have tasked the iLembe Enterprise, the provincial Department of Agriculture and Rural Development, and the municipality to provide a comprehensive report and a turnaround because the project must still deliver on the opportunities and unleash the economic dreams of the rural people of eMambedwini in ward 9 of KwaMaphumulo,” said Zikalala. Operation Sukuma Sakhe is an outreach programme aiming to fast-track service delivery by promoting participatory democracy with communities having a direct opportunity to address government on issues. “Through OSS we narrow the gap between government as provider of services and the citizens, who are beneficiaries but who also monitor and assess government’s work. “For this reason, Operation Sukuma Sakhe has been hailed internationally for promoting integrated services delivery, integrated planning and participation of communities in decision-making,” concluded Zikalala.