The Dr JL Dube High School in KwaMashu, Durban, will soon have an entirely new infrastructure with enhanced facilities. At a groundbreaking ceremony at the school on Thursday, the Cotton On Foundation announced its commitment to rebuilding and upgrading the school into a world-class facility. A refurbished infrastructure complete with digital learning spaces, sports facilities, additional staff and ongoing support all forms part of the foundation’s plans to create a new future for the school that educates 1 280 pupils. The Cotton On Foundation’s commitment to the school also includes a feeding scheme, the introduction of sporting programmes, teacher training, supplementing operational costs and the provision of literacy materials for pupils. Work on the physical and digital learning infrastructure starts later this month, with plans grounded in social and environmental sustainability. The rebuild includes implementing recycling stations for paper, plastic, glass, and cans, upcycling of material, repurposing as much demolition material as possible; all while maintaining the character of Dr JL Dube High by keeping key architectural features. Renewable energy, indigenous gardens and a water retention system will contribute to a reduced carbon footprint. Local contractors and Small, Medium and Micro Enterprises (SMMEs) form part of the development team. The ceremony was attended by several dignitaries including Cotton On Foundation ambassador, world-renowned local actress Nomzamo Mbatha. Mbatha delivered an impassioned speech in which she implored the pupils to honour the opportunity that the school is providing to enable them to achieve their goals in life, and encouraged them to stay committed to their education and to aim for the stars. “It is an honour to return to my hometown to attend this auspicious occasion which marks the beginning of a new chapter for Dr JL Dube High School,” said Mbatha. “On behalf of the community of KwaMashu, I would like to thank the Cotton On Foundation for investing in this school, knowing that education is key to creating a bright and promising future for our youth,” she added.