There are mixed opinions on Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga’s decision that all pupils should be taught some subjects in their mother tongue. Speaking during a parliamentary Q&A recently, Motshekga announced that the department will soon be implementing language changes in South African schools. She said the department is moving forward with its plans to incorporate mother-tongue languages at the country’s schools. Motshekga said pupils are performing poorly at school because they are being taught using English — “a language that is foreign to them”. Motshekga said: Motshekga said the department has already held successful mother-tongue pilot projects in the Eastern Cape and has taken this as a nod to move the project into other provinces in the country. The department reported that 2 015 schools in the Eastern Cape are using IsiXhosa and Sesotho as the language of learning and teaching beyond the foundation phase. Pupils in these schools are taught subjects such as mathematics, natural science, and technology in their home languages. Motshekga added that it would be impossible to transition to a purely mother-tongue-based system. She said the department will use technology and other systems to effectively translate complicated scientific and mathematical concepts into languages that do not necessarily have the same terminology.  Zulu cultural expert, Professor Sihawu Ngubane, welcomed Motshekga’s decision. “I think it’s a victory for language activists that the minister has taken that decision,” he said. Ngubane said the challenge and main task ahead is the provision of teaching material. “You cannot just wake up and teach in your language if there is no material. You need to have references to both languages so that it’s easy for educators to teach. The minister must make provision for the production of these books,” he said. Ngubane said pupils who speak indigenous languages are suffering because they have to express themselves in a foreign language and also have to comprehend in a foreign language. Ngubane said: Naomi Holdt, an educational psychologist, said in theory, the concept of teaching particular subjects in a pupil’s home language is an excellent one. She said every pupil deserves the opportunity to be educated in their home language but stressed that we cannot ignore the reality that the education department “is already facing significant other challenges in several areas”. “Putting this concept into practice on a national scale is going to require resources that we simply do not have. “We will need skilled educators who are proficient in each child’s home language within each school or area and who are trained in teaching in specialised subject areas,” she said. Holdt said if every child were taught in their home language, we would undoubtedly have a far more realistic idea of the actual academic potential of pupils. However, she said the introduction of this concept will require a significant amount of organisation, a great number of skilled and proficient educators, space within schools to accommodate additional classes, and financial resources to pay for extra educators. Holdt said this is unquestionably an excellent move towards equal education opportunities, however, she said there are many layers to consider, and on a national level, it will be an exceptionally challenging task. A primary school subject advisor in the Eastern Cape, who asked not to be named in the article, said she was concerned about the minister’s decision to implement the programme in other provinces as they have been struggling with it. “Firstly, parents and teachers were basically bulldozed with this programme, they were never consulted before it was implemented.” The woman said some parents resorted to removing their children from schools where the programme was being trialled because they were against their children being taught in their mother-tongue. She said there are currently no textbooks to teach pupils in isiXhosa, and alleged that some subject advisors, who also studied their teaching degrees in English, are being roped in to help translate the subjects. “I’m a maths expert, not a language expert, yet I have also been tasked with translations. This whole thing is concerning, and I foresee problems with this in the near future,” she said.