Former Pietermaritzburg primary school counsellor and alleged sexual predator, Darren Goddard, is expected to learn his fate on Friday. Judge Kate Pillay, who is sitting with an assessor, on Thursday afternoon started to deliver what is likely to be a lengthy judgment in the trial of the former guidance counsellor who at the time of his arrest was well known in photography and cycling circles in KwaZulu-Natal. The public gallery was fairly full on Thursday, mainly with family and friends of boys he is alleged to have molested. The case against him dates back to his arrest in June 2016 on multiple charges of rape and sexual assault of young boys between 2012 and 2016. On Thursday, Judge Pillay started her judgment by saying the central issue the court must decide is whether or not the State has succeeded in proving the allegations that Goddard is indeed a sexual predator who preyed on young boys who were entrusted to him for counselling, “or if the case is so tainted by irregularities” that the State had failed to prove its case. It was alleged by defence advocate Shane Matthews during legal arguments in the trial that the way the police conducted its investigation into the charges against Goddard had been irregular. He argued that statements from the boys Goddard was charged with molesting were obtained using a “high level of suggestibility”. This was strongly disputed by State advocate Attie Truter who said the evidence of the young boys showed a pattern of behaviour by Goddard, who is also alleged to have accessed child pornography on his computer. ALSO READ | Judgment in alleged Pietermaritzburg child molester Goddard’s case postponed Judge Pillay on Thursday apologised at the start of her judgment for the lengthy delay in the finalisation of the trial. She said it was unfortunate that the matter had dragged on for as long as it did. This was due to various factors including the number of witnesses who testified and the nature of the defence raised by Goddard, who had pleaded not guilty. He also submitted a 15 page statement outlining the basis of his defence. Added to that were interruptions due to the onset of Covid-19 as well as illness suffered by the judge. She started summarising the testimony of the state witnesses, including the boys who gave details of what sexual acts Goddard allegedly subjected them to during their counselling sessions in his classroom, as well as overnight stays at his residence. ALSO READ | Former KZN school counsellor Darren Goddard’s rape trial adjourned again The judge has not yet drawn conclusions about the testimony. Goddard pleaded not guilty to 15 counts. These include the two that he accessed and possessed 3 662 images of child pornography (on digital devices) at various places between June 14, 2007 and August 2016; seven of rape and six of sexual assault. The charges involve a total of nine boys between the ages of five and 13 years old. The judgment will resume at 10 am.