Lonehill Media, publishers of The Gardener and Die Tuinier
magazines, announced on Tuesday that they will not be hosting any further
Garden Shows. The Garden Show is the oldest and most respected gardening
show in South Africa, held at The Royal Showgrounds in Pietermaritzburg every
year. Tanya Visser, editor of the magazines, said the decision did
not come lightly. “We have met on several occasions to assess the future of
our shows. Discussions were held around various aspects that have an impact on
organising a show and, of course, the change in consumer habits since the
global pandemic. “Our team has been through two challenging years and tough
decisions were made to ensure the survival and longevity of our publications,
which are and will remain the core of our business, with an additional focus on
digital media.” Visser said these decisions allowed Lonehill to not only
navigate the pandemic and the difficult trading conditions but also
predetermined their future focus. “As we close the chapter… we look back at the spectacular
keynote gardens that were built by world-class and highly respected designers
and landscapers in the industry. “The gardens were of an incredibly high standard,
comparative to those at the Chelsea Flower Show. We remember the other nodes of
the shows, from gardening, specialist plants and craft exhibits, to the spring
dog and agility shows, art shows, exquisite floral designs, sugar art shows,
quilting exhibits, DIY and tool exhibits, school gardens competitions, the
happy earth exhibit, braai competitions, kids’ zone, delicious food and delicacies,
muddy trips in a 4x4 on the main arena and so much more. The Garden Show held
true to its name and really did have something for everyone,” she said. She went on to extend her heartfelt gratitude to The Royal
Agricultural Society of KwaZulu-Natal for offering us the opportunity to be
custodians of the show and for partnering with them, offering guidance and help
during each stage of the show organisation and during the shows. She also thanked their headline sponsors, area sponsors,
societies, landscapers and designers, judges, exhibitors, suppliers, media
partners and contributors for their continued support throughout the years,
which ensured that the show would go on. “To our visitors, thank you for believing in us and for
giving us a reason to organise our shows. Even in the pouring rain, and
sometimes thunderstorms, you continued to enter through the gates with much
anticipation to see what each show had to offer. Your excitement spread through
the showgrounds and your laughter and enjoyment will always remain a fond show
memory. “We now reach the end of a long era; the history book has
closed, and the beautiful dame of a garden show is now yet another chapter in
our lives. It shaped us and added so much to who and what we are, and for that
we will be forever grateful,” said Visser.