Messages of condolences are pouring in for a Richmond police officer who died in a car accident on Monday afternoon. Sergeant Sameer Singh (27) was driving with his partner when the accident happened on the R56 road to Pie­termaritzburg. His partner survived and was rushed to hospital. The Mi7 National Group Emergency Medical Services said in a statement their team was dispatched after reports of a crash near Thornville at around 4 pm. They found that two vehicles, a car and delivery vehicle, had collided head on. KwaZulu-Natal EMRS was already on scene and had declared one man dead. “Another occupant in the car, who had sustained moderate injuries, was stabilised by Mi7 medics using Advanced Life Support intervention before being taken to hospital.” Mi7 said the occupants of the delivery vehicle had minor injuries, but did not need transportation to hospital. A family member Mithesh Jethoo, told The Witness that Singh and his partner were on their way to Pietermaritzburg when the accident happened. He said they were travelling to his girlfriend’s house where they were going to celebrate her birthday, which was on Tuesday. He said the driver of a delivery truck that they collided with made a U-turn, which resulted in the accident. “It is a huge loss to the community, SAPS and emergency services because he was so well known. “He was such a great soul. He was a vibrant person, a guy who would always walk in with a smile. “He was planning on getting married to his girlfriend and he was going to propose to her today [Tuesday] since it is her birthday,” he said. Jethoo said what is upsetting is that the person who caused the accident walked away with no injuries. Since the news broke, people have been sending their condolences on social media, expressing how shocked and sad they were after hearing the news. They described Singh as a wonderful, loving person who adored his job. Richmond Mayor Samora Ndlovu, told The Witness on Tuesday that the whole area has experienced a great loss. He said even though the accident happened on the R56 road to Pietermaritzburg, it was still within the Richmond area. “This is devastating news. He was such a great person and he was still young. We expected a lot from him as a young police officer who loved his job. “He was one of the police officers who was very passionate about his job. This is a huge loss for us, especially because he was from Richmond and he knew all the spots in Richmond,” he said. Ndlovu said the police force in Richmond will feel his absence as he was a hard-working police officer. “We know that it is going to take the department a long time before they can get someone who will fill his place. He or she can fill his position but they will never replace him. “We are sending our sincere condolences to his family. We know that it is a difficult time for them because they also expected a lot from him as he was still young. We pray that God is with them in this difficult time.” ALSO READ | Death toll of KZN Midlands’ bakkie crash rises to four Shaheen Suleiman from Magma said, “He was a kind young man who was committed to his community. He loved his job and was very passionate about it. He was an honest person and always willing to help anyone. He was one of those kids who was a good soul. He was a team player. “I have known him for a long time since he started with the SAPS. He was always asking all the right questions. His heart was in a right place. He was always eager to learn,” he said. Suleiman said it is a huge loss and he can still not believe it. He said it was very hard to replace a person like Singh because there are very few of them.