Pietermaritzburg search and rescue police officer, Sergeant Busisiswe Mjwara (42), drowned on Sunday while searching for flood victims at the Henley Dam area. Police dog Leah from the Durban SAPS K9 also drowned. The National Commissioner of the SAPS General Fannie Masemola confirmed that two police members, and a K9 had passed away. Masemola said at about 11.30 am on Sunday, Mjwara was conducting a search in the Msunduzi river for three victims that had drowned earlier in the week, when she got into difficulty and drowned. He said Mjwara was airlifted to a nearby hospital but was sadly declared dead on arrival. During the same operation, said Masemola, K9 Leah from the Durban Central Search and Rescue (SAR) unit also drowned. According to reports, Leah was attempting to assist Mjwara when she also experienced difficulties, he said. The third member, 31-year-old Constable Thandazile Sithole, who was attached to the Durban Central Police Station, died when her home collapsed on her earlier this week. Mjwara, who is well known in the Midlands area, is believed to be the only female search and rescue officer in Pietermaritzburg. Meanwhile, many people have taken to Facebook and WhatsApp to post their condolence messages. Her colleagues and friends have been sharing messages and the pictures of the fallen officer, describing her as a brave, dedicated and well-known officer and mother. Brandon Drinkwater from Mi7 also extended his condolences to Mjwara’s friends, colleagues and family. “We at Mi7 would like to extend our sincere condolences to her family, her children, as well as her colleagues at search and rescue. “Unfortunately, I can’t say much about what happened but we’re all saddened at her tragic loss,” said Drinkwater. Emer-G-Med also expressed their heartfelt condolences to the SAPS search and rescue team on the tragic news of the death of two of their members lost in the line of duty on Sunday. “Sergeant Mjwara and K9 officer Leah made the ultimate sacrifice to the republic during rescue operation efforts in flood-stricken Kwazulu-Natal. “Thank you members for your service both human and K9. Our thoughts are with your colleagues and loved ones,” said Emer-G-Med. General Masemola said at least 30 police officers have been affected by the floods with some injured and the majority displaced after their homes were washed away. “On behalf of the SAPS, let me take this opportunity to thank the deceased members for their service to the nation. These members died heroines, putting their country first. My heartfelt condolences goes out to the family, friends and colleagues of the two members,  K9 Leah and those members who have lost their loved ones. “A speedy recovery to those who have been injured as well as those who have lost their homes and belongings. As management, we will be looking into the immediate needs of all affected and see how best we can remedy the situation. “I also wish to thank members of the SAPS for upholding and enforcing the law during these challenging times as well as pay gratitude to those who remain at the forefront of the search and rescue operations”, said Masemola. He added that members of the Employee Health and Wellness (EHW) unit have since been dispatched to provide psychosocial as well as trauma debriefing counselling services to all affected areas including police stations and units. 