There have been calls for armed security escorts for tankers that deliver water to areas with damaged infrastructure after the recent floods around the province. Over the weekend, at least two crime scenes played out in the province. On Saturday afternoon, a municipal employee in the water department was shot and killed in Ottawa, Verulam, and on Sunday afternoon, two men attempted to redirect a water tanker from Isipingo Hills to kwaMakhutha. The truck was not assigned to service kwaMakhutha at the time. DA area councillor Shad Nowbuth said the situation was scary because people were desperate for water and criminal elements are taking advantage of this. Nowbuth said: “Luckily that attempt failed, but that is no consolation because we don’t know if these people will be returning. Hence the need to beef up security for these trucks. “This is a very frustrating phase, especially for those who must rely on supplied water for survival. We have since roped in our community policing forum to escort these trucks to avoid lawlessness,” said Nowbuth. An eyewitness to Sunday’s incident said the two men instructed the driver to move the truck to kwaMakhutha. “As there was some resistance towards the instruction, one man went for what I could clearly see to be a gun and one of us went for his cellphone. It was then that the men got into a minibus taxi and drove off. I’m still traumatised. “The matter was not reported to the police because we are known in the area, so no one wants to be a target,” said a resident who asked not to be named for fear of reprisals. On Saturday, Phumzile Qatha (36) was shot while on duty at one of the water filling stations where tankers deliver to residents who have no water due to the damage to infrastructure. The mother of three from Mount Frere, Eastern Cape, was employed as a supervisor in eThekwini’s water and sanitation unit, and she was on duty when she was shot several times. eThekwini communications unit referred The Witness to Metro police boss Parboo Sewpersadh for comment. Sewpersadh said the security element in the areas of concern was not the competency of his department. He appealed to people to exercise patience at the filling spots. Sewpersadh said: IFP councillor in eThekwini, Mdu Nkosi, said this period was an abnormal one for the people of KZN. “When people see a water tanker driving past their area where they also do not have water, they are likely to be agitated. “Security clusters in eThekwini and the province should have done better by ensuring strong security to protect municipal employees and the NGOs that are still supplying water to people,” said Nkosi.