As residents start mopping up operations following heavy rain which flooded roads, homes and offices on Monday, the South African National Defence Force (SANDF) has been roped in to help provide aerial support where necessary as inclement weather conditions continue to cause havoc across KZN. This as more heavy rain has been forecast for Tuesday. Residents living in low lying areas are urged to seek shelter on higher ground and disaster management teams have opened public facilities such as community halls for those who need shelter. The department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) said it is working together with social partners and sister departments to ensure that there is interim relief for those that are housed in shelters. So far, the extent of the heavy rains is across the province with eThekwini being one of the most affected areas. The department said disaster management teams are still collating the extent of the damage so far. Disaster management teams have been evacuating people in areas that have experienced mudslides, flooding, and structural collapses of buildings and roads. The heavy rains have affected power lines in many municipalities with technical teams working around the clock to restore power. The department has also urged residents in areas on higher ground to open up their homes for their neighbours who are stranded as a result of the flooding caused by the heavy rains. Many roads are blocked and residents are requested to avoid unnecessary journeys. The inclement weather conditions are expected to continue on Tuesday and the South African Weather Service has warned of significant rainfall in eThekwini, KwaDukuza, Mandeni, Maphumulo, Ndwedwe, Ray Nkonyeni, Umdoni, Mkhambathini, Richmond, Msunduzi, uBuhlebezwe, uMlalazi, uMngeni, uMshwathi, Umuziwabantu, uMvoti, Umzimkhulu, Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma and Umzumbe municipalities. This increases the risk of flooding getting worse in all these areas. The Provincial Disaster Management Centre has activated support from the South African National Defence Force for them to provide aerial support where necessary. At least two people have died, while hundreds have been displaced, following the heavy rains. One person died in an Umlazi informal settlement on Sunday after the area was hit by a mudslide. The second death was reported in KwaMashu, according to the eThekwini Municipality. Two other people are missing after their car was swept away in Molweni. Numerous roads are flooded and landslides have occurred in many parts of KZN.