Auditor-general Tsakani Maluleke, has authorised that her office should undertake real-time audits of the funds set aside to provide relief to KwaZulu-Natal and Eastern Cape communities ravaged by floods. Maluleke said the AG has an important role to play in providing independent assurance that public funds are accounted for and are being used as intended. She said this is a mammoth task that requires three levels of government working together in collaboration. She said as the national audit office, they are ready to play their role in ensuring that the funds reach the affected communities. The AG audits will follow the expenditure on key priority areas identified by the government, which include but are not limited to the reconstruction of destroyed infrastructure like housing, roads, hospitals, schools as well as the provision of social relief, water, and sanitation services. Explaining what a real-time audit is, Maluleke said it is an early audit aimed to prevent, detect and report on the findings to ensure an immediate response to prevent leakage, potential fraud, and wastage. ALSO READ | Umgeni Water executives visit flood victims in KZN She said real-time audits equip accounting officers and accounting authorities of public institutions to act quickly on weaknesses in controls and prevent further losses. A real-time audit also enables immediate oversight and consequence management. In 2020, after the outbreak of Covid-19, Maluleke said the AG conducted real-time audits of the high-risk transactions that were part of the R500 billion allocated for mitigation measures and issued three special reports. She said the audit was able to identify key weaknesses that should not be repeated. Maluleke said: She said the accounting officers and authorities have been entrusted with the management and disbursement of funds during the state of disaster. “Accounting officers and authorities must exercise vigilance and put in place adequate preventative controls to prevent any material irregularities. “This is important in our quest to inspire confidence in the system of accountability,” said Maluleke.