Members of the Cleland/Meadows Residents and Ratepayers Association and residents held a street golf day to highlight the issue of potholes on several roads in the area. More than 100 community members, young and old, came out to participate in the golf day, which was held on Oleander Road and Lynroy Avenue. The association said the idea of the golf day came after committee members and residents expressed their concerns about the bad condition of the roads, with no assistance from the Msunduzi Municipality. Speaking to The Witness, the association’s chairperson, Jacyn Fanner, said over the past four years they have been complaining about the poor state of the roads. Fanner said people in the area are left with no choice but to drive on driveways and verges as they try to manoeuvre their way around the potholes to get to and from work. Due to the bad state of the roads, motorists find themself having to spend much more money on fixing their car and buying new tyres, she said. “There are no roads there, it’s just sand and a bunch of holes. Residents have been living under such conditions for a very long time and we believe that enough is enough. The golf day was about drawing attention to the matter. We have municipal leaders who continue to say there is nothing wrong with the city, yet the conditions we are living in are just bad.” Fanner said people living with disabilities, especially those who use wheelchairs, are also unable to use the road because of the state it is in. “The turnout [for the golf day] just proved to us that people are frustrated about this. We had children from as young as two years old to elderly people up to 87 years old,” said Fanner. She said the association had previously sent out personal letters to the municipal manager’s office and mayor Mzimkhulu Thebolla. ALSO READ | Poor state of KZN roads a critical threat to food security and rural safety However, she said with tons of reports reference numbers at their disposal, they are still waiting for assistance from the City and they feel ignored. Local ward councillor Douglas Roberts said the concept behind the golf day was to bring awareness of the plight of the Cleland and Meadows ratepayers. He said they have been requesting assistance with the roads for many years, and have to date only received promises. “The roads are in a shocking state. Many of the roads in the area have more potholes than road surface. Where the event was held, more than 30 potholes can be counted in less than 20 metres of road. Residents are being plagued with punctures, near-miss accidents when other drivers swerve to avoid potholes, and street verges getting used as a driving surface to avoid driving through the potholes,” he said. Roberts said the municipality is aware of the condition of the roads and it has been discussed at the council’s rapid response meetings, where they were told it will be attended to. They are, however, met with excuses when pushing for timelines. “The public needs to be aware of all the challenges facing this defunct municipality with some of its poorly planned and budgeted projects. Council can justify wanting to give money to a soccer team, but cannot find funding to repair its infrastructure in rate-paying areas. It tells you that their priorities aren’t correct,” said Roberts. Msunduzi spokesperson Ntobeko Mkhize said the municipality is aware of the challenges regarding road infrastructure and has been undertaking maintenance and potholes repairs programmes. However, said Mkhize, the limited financial resources have slowed the progress. “Some of the city’s roads have reached their lifespan. As part of the municipality’s plan to upgrade and improve the infrastructure, eight percent of the budget has been allocated during the medium-term budget adjustment and the roads question is on the programme,” said Mkhize. 