Cooking oil, potatoes, beef, fish, spinach, cabbage, green pepper, tinned pilchards, bananas, polony, and apricot jam have all increased by 5% or more in April. In addition, the price of maize meal, cake flour, rice, white sugar, samp, eggs, milk, frozen chicken portions, margarine, peanut butter, bread, curry powder and stock cubes have also gone up. This is according to the April Household Affordability Index, compiled by the Pietermaritzburg Economic Justice & Dignity Group, which tracks food price data from 44 supermarkets and 30 butcheries in the country. Released on Thursday, the index shows that in April, the average cost of the household food basket is R4 542,93. The basket cost has increased by R92,84 (2,1%), from R4 450,09 in March to R4 542,93 in April. The group said in a statement that factors (global and local) impacting on the plate include the war in the Ukraine, the high brent crude oil price, the high fuel price, and a weak exchange rate. “Much higher production and logistical costs will continue to drive prices upwards and are likely to continue rising for the rest of 2022. The recent flooding in KwaZulu-Natal (not accounted for in the April data) will add to these increases going forward,” said a statement on the affordability index. The surge in the cost of food is hitting households, on low incomes, hard. It said that what is being seen now is a sharpening of what has been happening over the past few years. “Women find the money to buy the basics. Smaller volumes of foods of the cheapest brands on the shelf are bought more often, and then women ‘will see’ (find a way to buy more). Women make a plan,” said the statement. It added that at retail level, supermarkets have responded by bringing in a lot of new cheaper brands, offering shop brands, offering specials, ‘combos’ (maize meal, rice, flour, sugar, oil, potatoes, onions, carrots) and store cards. The statement added that the national minimum wage is R23,19 an hour and R185,52 for an eight-hour day. Transport to work and back will cost a worker an average of R1 152,00. Electricity will cost a worker an average of R731,50. A basket of basic but nutritious food, for a family of four people, will cost a worker R3 139,37. Together these three core expenses come to R5 022,28. “The majority of South African workers do not earn enough money to cover their basic expenses each month. “It means that in a crisis, there is no savings buffer. The spikes in the food basket are not being absorbed by workers, because there is no extra money to pay for the higher prices. Instead, workers cut back further on their family’s basic consumption, get sick more often, are more stressed and distracted, are less productive; and have less money to spend, and spread in the broader economy,” said the statement.