Two KwaZulu-Natal girls aged 15 and 17 have been charged with extortion, conspiracy to commit an offence as well as defeating the ends of justice. This comes after they faked the 17-year-old’s kidnapping. KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson, Lieutenant Colonel Nqobile Gwala, said the 17-year-old girl left her home at Ndindindi in Nquthu, northern KwaZulu-Natal, on March 25 without informing her family. It turns out that she had gone to visit her 15-year-old friend in Umlazi, Durban. However, because no one knew where she was, Gwala said a missing persons docket was opened at the Nquthu SAPS for investigation. Her family then received a call to say she had been kidnapped and that R8000 ransom was needed. Police searched for the teenager in Umlazi section U and D. She was eventually found in a nearby house. “She was taken along with her 15-year-old accomplice for questioning. It was established that the victim left her home and visited a 15-year-old girl whom she alleged that she met on social media. She stayed with her friend the entire weekend while her family and police were worried sick about her disappearance,” said Gwala. She said during the investigation, it was established that videos of her were taken to create the impression that she was being held captive. The videos were forwarded to her family and a ransom was demanded. Both teenagers appeared at the Nquthu Magistrate’s Court on Friday but the matter was not enrolled. Gwala said the docket would be transferred to Umlazi SAPS for further investigations. She said the teenagers were released into their parents’ custody pending further investigations. “We would like to warn the members of the community to refrain from reporting fake cases. Those found reporting false cases would face the full might of the law as it results in resources being wasted while police should be focusing on serious crimes. The arrest of the two teens is testimony that police have the ability to uncover such schemes and will ensure that the perpetrators are brought to book,” said Gwala.