EThekwini Municipality Mayor, Mxolisi Kaunda, said the city’s disaster management teams were shocked by the magnitude of the recent heavy rains. “We must reiterate the municipality has deployed all multidisciplinary teams all over the city. Our footprint, for now, is limited because there are many damages, looking at the number of incidents that are taking place in the municipality. “But they are trying their level best to rescue communities and save lives because what becomes priority now is to save lives wherever possible,” he said. Kaunda was speaking during a virtual media briefing on Tuesday afternoon after meeting with eThekwini’s disaster management teams. Kaunda said the city of Durban was in a “state of disaster” following three days of heavy rains. Many Durban residents on social media have been complaining that eThekwini did not give them an early warning to prepare ahead of the floods. However, Kaunda insisted a weather alert was issued to the public but did not specify when. “When the South African Weather Service alerted us to these heavy rains, we issued alerts to the public. We then put our disaster management teams on standby,” he said. “Immediately after receiving reports from the public, which worsened last night, wheels were set in motion for rescue operations and relief aid by our disaster management personnel.” According to its social media, eThekwini Municipality issued its first weather alert on Monday at around 1 pm. The heavy rains started on Friday. Kaunda said on Tuesday they were still taking stock of the damage and it was still too early to place a monetary figure on it. He said roads, buildings, electricity substations and water treatment plants belonging to Umgeni Water were among the infrastructure damaged by the floods. This has led to many areas across the city not having electricity or water, he said. “Most power stations have been flooded. Our teams were not able to reach them last night, but most have been reached this morning. We are attending to all infrastructure challenges,” he said. Kaunda also apologised to residents who failed to get through when they tried to contact eThekwini’s call centre. He said the call centre system was “overwhelmed” due to the volume of calls coming in. Kaunda said disaster management teams were deployed to hard hit areas in Durban for rescue operations. “Our teams are working tirelessly to save lives,” he said. Kaunda said these heavy rains were “fundamentally” different to the ones the city experienced in 2011, 2017 and 2019. He said the previous storms were made worse by a lack of proper drainage systems. “One of the fundamental factors that have influenced many areas we have received reports from, they are as a result of landslides in the area,” he said. “Therefore, it has nothing to do with the drainage system. So if there are houses that are built on steep hills, when water comes it washes away the entire infrastructure.” Kaunda said he was hoping that the South African National Defence Force would be deployed to Durban by Tuesday. Kaunda said the SANDF had many doctors, nurses and other professionals who were trained to work in disaster areas. The official death toll from eThekwini stood at two on Tuesday afternoon but authorities expected this number to increase Kaunda said the KZN Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) had been mandated to update the public on the official death tolls.