“I can’t even sleep at night anymore. I wake up every day, cry and pray, to at least find my daughter’s bones so that I can bury her.” These are the words of the emotional Nonhlanhla Mdima who has been searching for her daughter, Nelisiwe Mdima (18) for eight days in Emadimeni in Molweni, outside Hillcrest. Speaking to The Witness on Tuesday, Mdima said Nelisiwe was swept away by the floods on Monday, April 11, together with her grandchild (Nelisiwe’s child), Kuhlekonke Mdima (2). She said on that night, Nelisiwe was at her boyfriend’s place. Ndima said they were woken by community members who told them to come quickly as Nelisiwe and Kuhlekonke had been swept away by the floods. “At first, I didn’t understand what they meant because the river is far away from where we stay. I was told that a huge wave of water came up the hill and knocked a few houses down. I felt like I was dreaming. The water was above my waist, and we did not understand where it came from,” she said. She said four other residents were also washed away down the stream towards the Umgeni River. Mdima said through the search by the community, they managed to find the body of Kuhlekonke on Thursday. “We found Kuhlekonke next to a taxi, which was also washed away. Her dead body was found by community members. Almost all her bones were broken, I think it’s because she kept hitting the rocks. She also had a big hole in her stomach. Since that day my hope of finding Nelisiwe increased, but unfortunately, we have been searching ever since. I’m very grateful to the community members who have been searching since Tuesday. “I’m dead inside, and I don’t know how long I can keep handling this type of pain. It’s so hard sleeping at night and not knowing where your child is. I’m praying we find her body at least. I will never find peace in my heart as long as my child’s body hasn’t been found,” said Mdima. Mdima said Kuhlekonke will be buried on Wednesday. Ndima said they have tried to contact the police to come with search dogs but nothing has happened until now. She said the only people who have been searching are community members who wake up every morning to look for Nelisiwe. “I even went to the police station to beg them to come and help the community members search for my daughter, but until now, nothing has been done. I guess my child’s body will rot wherever it is and be eaten by wild animals just like that,” said Mdima. A community member, Sandile Zuma, who has been on the ground searching, said they have exhausted all their efforts in finding Nelisiwe. “We have done everything possible and searched everywhere but to this day, we haven’t found her. It’s hard and very sad because we wake up every morning, with the limited resources at our disposal to search,” he said. Meanwhile, more than 400 people have been displaced to various community halls and churches after their homes were washed away in the area. Speaking to the Witness, a resident, Musa Masango, said he lost everything last week and is only left with the clothes that he was wearing that night. “I don’t know how long I will be in this hall. It’s bad. I know that I have nothing. Everything was washed away including my ID, qualifications, food, clothes, everything. “It’s hard because I have to start afresh and I don’t even know how I will be able to do that, and if I’ll be able to do that,” said an emotional Masango.