Admirers of Gift of the Givers’ founder Dr Imtiaz Sooliman are calling for him to be the next president of South Africa. Following the recent flooding and rains in KwaZulu-Natal, Sooliman and his team have been on the ground helping flood-stricken areas. Many people have taken to social media to applaud his humanitarian work. Some have even created posters and pictures, calling him a superhero. There is a Facebook fan page called “Dr Imtiaz Sooliman for president of South Africa” which has over 35 000 members. The page shares the work of Gift of the Givers and posts praises for its founder. There is also currently an edited picture of Dr Sooliman, dressed in superhero attire circulating on social media. Odelle Brown said via Facebook: Eusebius Mckaiser said, “Like many South Africans, I trust Gift of the Givers more than I trust our state, sadly. I made a monetary donation to Gift of the Givers to help them with their work in KZN…” Another Facebook user, Logan Govender, said: “Give our very own SA hero Dr Sooliman the R1 billion [KZN flood relief funds] and he will not only bring back KZN to what it was, but he will make it better. “I salute you, kind sir. KZN salutes you. The whole of SA salutes you. Thank you for your continuous and tremendous [compassion] for the people of our country. God bless you, Sir,” said Govender. When asked if he was aware of this appreciation, Dr Sooliman laughed, saying he has seen a million such posts and praises. Sooliman said he appreciates that people recognise the work that he and his team do. “It shows that people have been taking notice of the work we’ve been doing over the years, but it’s not even about the notice and getting thanks, it’s about getting support. “The fact that people recognise our work means we get more support, which means we can help more people,” Sooliman said. He said that he is also grateful that people are generous enough to donate their hard-earned money to help those in need, even in tough economic times. He said: Sooliman said even when driving Gift of the Givers branded vehicles, people hoot and wave at them to show appreciation for the work that they are doing. “When we get to areas [that] need help, people say ‘the green people have arrived’. They say hope has arrived and God has sent us. Those are the types of sentiments we get on the ground,” said Dr Sooliman.