In-house radiation therapy is now available at Netcare St Anne’s Hospital, Pietermaritzburg. General manager of the hospital, Louis Joubert, said they recently installed a state-of-the-art linear accelerator at Netcare St Anne’s Hospital. “With the introduction of the advanced Varian linear accelerator here at the hospital, offering a range of specialised radiation therapies to cancer patients, we are now able to provide comprehensive and integrated in-house cancer care for the convenience and comfort of patients diagnosed with cancer,” said Joubert. According to the statement released by the hospital, for many years, Hopelands Cancer Centre has offered chemotherapy treatment at St Anne’s. However, patients who in the past required radiation therapy had to receive this aspect of their treatment at an off-site facility. “With the opening of the in-house radiotherapy facility, we are now able to offer patients convenient and integrated care in the familiar surroundings of the hospital,” says managing director of Hopelands Cancer Centre, Dr Ziad Seedat. In addition to the new in-house therapy, the hospital is also providing holistic, compassionate support including patient navigation by a specially trained oncology nurse who guides and assists each patient throughout their cancer treatment journey. This includes dietary advice, prosthetic devices, wigs, a wound care clinic, physiotherapy for lymphoedema treatment as well as patient and family counselling if needed. According to Seedat, this new radiotherapy accommodates different types of cancers, it is non-invasive and involves the use of ionising radiation to deliver a powerful dose of energy to the tumour, no matter the size or shape of the tumour. Netcare’s regional radiation manager, Prea Naidoo said that this type of technology will ensure that treatment times are shorter. “There is more hope than ever for improving outcomes for cancer patients and saving lives, particularly with early detection through regular screening, technological advances and our holistic, collaborative approach to each person’s individual journey with cancer,” said Naidoo.