Minister of Social Development, Lindiwe Zulu, pleaded with flood victims to work closer with government as it tries to restore their lives following the devastating floods in KwaZulu-Natal. Zulu said since President Cyril Ramaphosa declared the National State of Disaster, all departments, including local government, have to be able to help the affected families. She said government interventions should not be clouded by allegations of corruption. “We brought relief to the community, working together with many social partners and the private sector, including Old Mutual. When we respond to the plight facing our people as a result of floods, we will be working with local government because they are the ones that know people affected by the disaster,” said Zulu. Zulu with her deputy minister, Hendrietta Bogopane-Zulu and KwaZulu-Natal Social Development MEC, Nonhlanhla Khoza, rolled out government’s ongoing humanitarian relief measures to flood-stricken Ndwedwe and Mandeni municipalities under iLembe District Municipality. Zulu had vowed that government would stand with the affected families until they regained their strength and rebuilt their lives. She said the provision of the much-needed relief to families affected by the disaster should show that the government cared about everyone affected. “We are all in pain about the loss of lives and we have a team of social workers tasked to work with affected families and provide them with psycho-social support. We want to see people who lost their important documents being re-issued immediately to ensure that beneficiaries continued to receive what is due to them. Children who have lost their uniforms will be assisted with uniforms,” she said. Zulu further pleaded with the communities to avoid building in the low-lying areas, saying it was imperative for the local government to educate communities about climate change and indicate what needs to be avoided to reduce global warming. “Our scientists always advise us about the change of weather patterns in our country. We must follow their guidance because climate change is going to mess up our lives,” she said. MEC Khoza said that the commitment made by government to all flood victims would be fulfilled. She said with the help of the private sector every affected family would receive assistance. “Our government will stand all the way with the people. Those who lost their loved ones will receive assistance as our Premier Sihle Zikalala and President Cyril Ramaphosa made clear commitments. None of the donations will go to wrong people,” said Khoza. She added they’ll ensure that only affected people benefit and appealed to people not to take chances when they know they were not affected. “Let us show Ubuntu by supporting affected families,” said Khoza.