Roads in the vicinity of the Pietermaritzburg High Court will be closed or inaccessible to members of the public when the trial for former president, Jacob Zuma, resumes on Monday, April 11. Msunduzi’s traffic management plan indicates that the affected roads would be closed from Monday 6am until Thursday, April 14, while the court is in session. A. Temporary parking restriction 1. Parking will be prohibited in Church Street - between A.S. Chetty Building and Otto Street 2. Metered taxis parking area will not be accessible to metered taxis from Monday to Thursday due to their parking being used by SAPS especially in the area around Old Market Street, outside Bessie Head Library. 3. Metered taxi parking area in Church Street from the City Squares Taxi Rank towards the main entrance into Freedom Square will also not be available to the metered taxis during Zuma's court case. B. Temporary metered taxi parking area 1. All metered taxis will be temporarily accommodated in Church Street outside the City Squares Taxi Rank. C. Road closures Road closure will commence from 6am until the Pietermaritzburg High Court is over for each day. 1. Church Street/Boshoff Street - Soft closure where only minibus taxis and metered taxis will be allowed to go through to access the City Squares Taxi Rank. 2 Motorists intending to access A. S. Chetty Building for Msunduzi municipal services will also be slowed to go through at the soft closure point including members of public intending to access services at business premises in the area above Boshoff Street like KFC and other businesses. 3. Church Street/City Squares Taxi Rank exit point - there will be another soft closure where only high court judges and the media will be slowed to go through to their parking area. 4. Church Street/Judge’s entrance, there will be a hard closure where there will be speed fence across Church boxing up the area between the Pietermaritzburg High Court and the Pietermaritzburg Magistrate’s Court by Old Market Str. 5. Church Street/Old Market Street, there will be another hard closure with speed fence across Church Street with access controlled temporary gate. D. Temporary Prohibition of Freedom Squares Parking 1. Parking from Monday, April 11, to Thursday, April 14, will be out of bounds as it will be reserved for any gathering by supporters of former president during the trial at high court. 1.1. The magistrate's court staff and private attorneys have been requested to find alternative parking during the period of the trial. E. Pietermaritz Street Reservation of one lane in Pietermaritz Street between Msunduzi Fire and Rescue Department up to Otto Street by the KZN National Prosecuting Authority head office, where traffic cones will be put up to reserve such lane for security purposes. The area above Old Market Street and below Boshoff Street in Church Street, will be operating as normal. Msunduzi Traffic Police will be out to maintain law and order.