KwaZulu-Natal Social Development MEC Nonhlanhla Khoza, has assured those affected by the floods that government would stand with them until the end. Khoza said the partnership government formed with NPOs, NGOs and community-based organisations has ensured that the response to needy people was well coordinated. She led a team of social workers along with officials from the South African Social Security Agency (SASSA), Correctional Services and Themba Njilo Foundation to Nazareth Township, outside Pinetown, west of Durban, to provide interventions to people housed in a local community hall. A lot of people were displaced as their homes were ravaged by floods two weeks ago. Khoza said her department decided to recall social workers based in other districts to increase the number of officials who are working on coordinating disaster relief to assist flood victims. “As we deal with one of the most tragic natural disasters that have occurred in the province, we need to hold hands as public and the private sector. This is not the time for finger-pointing, but we strongly need to support those affected,” she said. Khoza handed over Social Relief of Distress (SRD) money to 196 displaced people to the tune of R400 000. “It must be known that these vouchers are a once-off intervention. This has been made specially to assist those that have been hit by the disaster. As a caring government, we took an informed decision to help our citizens,” she said. She added that at no stage should the plight of the people be politicised. It was very disappointing to hear people claiming that government interventions would end up in the wrong hands, she added. The department does a thorough profiling to ensure that people who benefit from these interventions are those who are really affected and deserving. “We want to appeal to our communities not to allow themselves to be misled by those who only think negatively of all that the government is doing. This is a government of the people by the people and is responding according to the needs of the people,” she added. She said communities housed in the halls would continue to get meals until their lives were normalised.