Hundreds of residents from the various buildings in Umdloti Beach, north of Durban, have been evacuated due to concerns about building safety. This comes after the buildings were affected by floods on Monday after a mudslide entered a number of apartments on North Beach Road. Tons of sand had also blocked the road, leaving residents on the other side trapped for more than a week. The building above these buildings was then washed away and tons of sand, in mud form, entered the buildings. A resident from the Cozumel Building who spoke to The Witness on condition that she will not be named said building management advised them to evacuate. “They told us to evacuate and I understand that it’s only for now as they’re busy cleaning up. But they also told us that the structure of the building was not safe for us to be in. As you can see, I’m packing and on my way to a relative where I’ll be staying temporarily until they give us the assurance that the building is safe again,” she said. She said even though there was no damage done to her flat, there was too much mud on her doorstep. “I believe that most of the tenants have already left and those who are still here are probably packing,” she said. The building manager who was on site was approached by The Witness for comment but he declined to speak to the reporter. Another resident from another building, Belinda Van Zyl said her car is still stuck in the parking lot and is covered with mud. She said after tons of water broke the back door and entered her home, everything was damaged. “My 79-year-old mother was stuck in the mud and we could only see her upper body. We had to dig her out of the mud. I contacted my relatives and asked to come and stay with them for a while. Since we didn’t have a car and the road was also covered with mud, we had to walk on the beach to the other side,” she said. Craig Marten said the road was only able to be cleared on Tuesday. “I only managed to drive out of the house this morning since the road has been cleared. For the whole week, we have been stuck. We had to walk through the beach sand to get to the other side and call my friend so he could drive me to the shops and back. Again, I’d walk on the beach with the groceries to get home. Mind you we still have no water and had to use the pool water to clean the house,” he said. A handful of people that were evacuated from different flats have come back to assess the damage caused by the floods. A number of vehicles are also still stuck and covered with mud in parking lots in various buildings.