The Democratic Alliance (DA) in KZN has called for an intensified approach by the provincial government in dealing with teen and child pregnancies. The move follows the release of a Statistics SA report which reveals that 5 500 children aged between 10 and 14 years gave birth in KZN during the 2019/20 financial year. Mmabatho Tembe, MPL and DA KZN spokesperson on Social Development, said they are deeply concerned by these statistics. “Equally alarming is that the figures seem to be growing. The question is — what is KZN’s government doing about it?” Tembe said while the figures have been described as shocking by KZN Social Development MEC Nonhlanhla Khoza, it is also clear that the government’s current prevention and early intervention programmes (PEIP) are not working. She said the fact that KZN currently has one of the highest rates of teenage pregnancies and the highest number of gender-based violence incidents countrywide calls for a collaborative approach across departments. “Teen pregnancy is a complex issue and government departments simply cannot work in silos. “The DA also notes the MEC’s commitment that a memorandum will be signed between the DSD and KZN’s Department of Health. Given the complexity and urgency of the issue, this must be extended to include other departments, including Education and Community Safety, who also have a vital role to play,” she said. Tembe said child and teenage pregnancies have a huge impact on the education, health and social circumstances of both teenage girls and their children. She said it entrenches these young women and their children into the poverty trap from which they seldom recover. “The DA firmly believes that the first thing that must be done is to acknowledge that this is a societal issue and that it will not be addressed until such time as the root causes are addressed, of which there are many.” Tembe said in 2014, the DA called for joint co-operation between KZN’s Social Development, Education and Health departments to formulate a hard-hitting strategy to ensure that pupils and teenagers have as much choice as possible when it comes to preventing unwanted pregnancies. She said it is clear that this advice was not heeded.