KwaZulu-Natal businesses in the freight and logistics sector have pinpointed the 2021 July civil unrest for a tough financial year. Last July over 40 000 businesses in Durban were either torched, looted or damaged during a week of large-scale unrest. Serco, one of the country’s largest truck and trailer building companies, said it recorded its lowest order book at the start of this year since the global financial crisis of 2008. Clinton Holcroft, Serco’s CEO and President of the Durban Chapter of Entrepreneurs Organisation said 2021 has been a tough year for business in KZN. “I believe the unrest took the wind out of our company’s sails, evident in that our usual end of year peak period failed to materialise. I attribute this to a large extent to the loss of business confidence and the extensive property damage which resulted in many businesses not being able to resume trading by the end of the year, if at all,” he said. Holcroft said business confidence in KZN has also taken a knock. “Restoring confidence through introducing and announcing steps to prevent a re-occurrence of the violence and theft should be a priority for creating growth in KZN.” Holcroft said Russia’s continued invasion of Ukraine will cause further increases to the price of fuel and other raw materials. “Price increases will put added pressure on business and to some extent be passed on to the already stretched consumer,” he said. Holcroft said there was a lot of uncertainty about the year ahead in terms of business prospects in the transport industry. Companies that had delayed capital expenditure over the last two years would experience mounting pressure to replace older equipment, he said, due to higher maintenance and breakdown costs. “Clients wanting to replace vehicles have however had some difficulty in securing truck chassis as suppliers are still battling to keep up with demand due to global shortages of silicone chips. Unfortunately, I think the war in Ukraine will put further pressure on supply chains and prolong the parts shortages,” he said. “Planning at least six months in advance will help alleviate some of the challenges when sourcing new commercial vehicles, including truck bodies, fridges, tail lifts and similar items as well as help to ensure on time delivery,” said Holcroft. Police Minister Bheki Cele said 17 people have been arrested as alleged instigators of the July civil unrest. In his recent testimony before the South African Human Rights Commission, President Cyril Ramaphosa, described the unrest as a well-orchestrated effort to destabilise the country’s economy and democracy.