At least two people died, while hundreds have been displaced, following heavy rains in KwaZulu-Natal since the weekend. Nonala Ndlovu, KZN spokesperson of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) said disaster management teams have been working around the clock to help people in distress in the province. “Our teams are on the ground. The problematic areas are the low-lying bridges and people living along flood planes,” she said. “There has been trouble with accessing some areas in rural KZN, as the terrain has been massively damaged,” she added. Ndlovu said the weather is expected to improve on Tuesday, which will make it easier for disaster teams to conduct mop-up and rescue operations. Ndlovu told The Witness at 5 pm that they have recorded two deaths in Durban so far and an updated report will be issued on Tuesday. The Witness reported that one person died in an Umlazi informal settlement on Sunday after the area was hit by a mudslide. The second death was reported in KwaMashu, according to the eThekwini Municipality. The city said it was conducting assessments on the impact of the heavy rains. Several roads, schools and residential buildings have been reportedly flooded in many areas across Durban. Vicky Schnetler, Umdloti precinct manager, said the situation was terrible, as the heavy rains flooded entire luxury estates in the beachside neighbourhood. Meanwhile, a number of low-level bridges were closed in Pietermaritzburg on Monday. Assistant traffic superintendent at Msunduzi Municipality, Bheki Xulu, said there were about four bridges that were closed to traffic on Monday due to overflow. These were; Grimthorpe Avenue Bridge in Lincoln Meade, Woodhouse Road low-level bridge near Sobantu, near Barnsley Road, and also on Willowfountain Road, in Willowfontein. “The two bridges, Sobantu and Grimthorpe, are worse and are very dangerous now. We would like to urge motorists to stay away from them. “Several roads are badly affected. This includes Moses Mabhida Road and Devonshire Road where there is water on the road which has resulted in the closure of one lane. “We are still gathering more information about the affected roads,” he said. Potholes on the roads have also been filled up with water, making it difficult for motorists to spot them, said Xulu. Xulu said they haven’t received any incidents caused by the heavy rains in their policing area. According to the South African Weather Services (Saws), a cut off low (Col) pressure system and a surface Atlantic high that dominated on Monday, is expected to dominate again on Tuesday. This will result in cold temperatures and scattered to widespread showers and rain. However, weather forecaster Ayanda Ntsele, said warm weather conditions are expected on Wednesday and Thursday. “A cold front accompanied by a surface ridging high comes through on Friday, resulting in isolated to scattered showers and rain. “Mainly cold to cool temperatures are expected over the weekend with isolated showers and rain,” he said. Ntele said there is no indication of possible alerts for the Easter weekend at this stage. Thando Mgaga, Umngeni Municipality spokesperson said that no disasters were reported in the municipality. “Some of our roads have been damaged by the heavy downpours, with potholes deepening in some of our roads and the asphalt cracking due to the water leading to the emergence of new potholes on some of the roads,” said Mgaga. In Ladysmith, the lower parts of the CBD were flooded yet again. WATCH | Heavy KZN rains lead to more flooding in Ladysmith. Motorists were asked to avoid the area, including Lyell Street, while all traffic was diverted through Murchison Street. Officials have warned motorists to expect high traffic volumes. More rain is expected to fall, and municipal officials are monitoring the situation. Meanwhile, bulk water supplier Umgeni Water, said it will be releasing water from the Hazelmere Dam in Durban to limit risks to the wall extension that is currently under construction. Shami Harichunder, Umgeni’s spokesperson, said on Monday that heavy rains over the past 72 hours pushed the level of Hazelmere Dam up to about 65%. “Umgeni Water has now taken a decision to release water from the dam on an emergency basis in order to reduce the level to 53%,” said Harichunder. He said the release process began on Monday.