Fashion and Textiles student at the Durban University of Technology (DUT), Thulubheke Ncanana, was part of Team South Africa that dominated at the WorldSkills Africa Competition held at Swakopmund in Namibia. The competition took place from Monday last week, March 28 to Saturday, April 2. The 21-year-old from Tshelimnyama in Mariannhill was among the eight students from higher education institutions that represented South Africa in the prestigious competition. He obtained a gold medal in the Fashion Technology category. Team SA was exceptional at this competition, as they managed to bring home eight medals out of the 16 categories they contested. Ncanana enrolled for a diploma in Fashion and Textiles at DUT. He is among the DUT graduands who will be honoured in the upcoming 2022 Autumn Graduation. He expressed his gratitude to his lecturers who encouraged him to enter the competition and helped when he was preparing himself for this once in a lifetime opportunity. “The competition was amazing and challenging at the same time as I had to finish all the requirements per task in a short space of given time. As I was returning to South Africa, I was very excited because the mission I was sent to do on behalf of South Africa and all of the South African designers was complete and I came back home with a gold medal and a certificate as a result of my potential and dedication,” he said. Tears of joy rolled down his eyes when he was announced as number one in his category, as he wished his late parents would be there to witness him shine in front of the world. He was comforted by the thought that his parents are with him spiritually and are probably looking down on him and smiling at the progress he has made in his life. “I have been passionate as ever since I have stepped foot at DUT Brickfield campus until now as I am coming from Namibia to represent the whole of South Africa in Fashion Technology. I can proudly say that this passion is something that has been within me since I was a kid, as my mother was a domestic machinist. I used to watch my mother sew traditional attire, curtains and all the items she produced to put food on the table for her children,” he said. Ncanana said he plans to start his own clothing brand called “The Redline”, meanwhile, he is hopeful that he will be appointed as one of the WorldSkills Ambassadors and also get a chance to represent South Africa at the WorldSkills International Competition in Shanghai, China in October 2022.