Raw water supply to the Durban Heights Water Treatment Plant (WTP) is increasing. Three urgent interventions have been implemented by Umgeni Water as part of its strategies to stabilise the system and ultimately restore full distribution. This comes after the damage that two out of the four aqueducts at Nagle dam experienced during the KZN floods. According to a statement released by Shami Harichunder, Corporate Stakeholder Manager of Umgeni water, during the torrential rain events from April 8-11, Aqueduct 1 and Aqueduct 2 broke in massive rock falls close to Molweni, Inanda. It was subsequently discovered in ongoing assessments that these aqueducts were also damaged at other points along their route from Nagle Dam and to the Durban Heights WTP. Durban Heights WTP supplies drinking water to eThekwini Metro for reticulation in north, south, central and inner west regions of Durban and on average, Aqueduct 1 conveys 100 megalitres (million litres) of raw water per day and Aqueduct 2 moves 150 megalitres per day. Umgeni water added their efforts in fixing the matter and their plans of supplying water to the affected areas. “The urgent actions that have been implemented by Umgeni Water to augment raw water resources are the optimisation of Aqueduct 3 and Aqueduct 4 by moving additional water through them in order to partially compensate for temporary decommissioning of Aqueduct 1 and Aqueduct 2. “Additional raw water, estimated at 100 megalitres, is being drawn from Inanda Dam and transported to the Durban Heights WTP using shaft pumps and repairs to damaged infrastructure is being conducted on a daily basis,” said Harichunder in the statement. Harichunder added that Umgeni Water is confident that incremental increases in raw water supply through Aqueduct 3 and Aqueduct 4, ongoing augmentation from Inanda Dam and other interventions will assist in optimising supply from Durban Heights WTP. “In line with a mapped project schedule, it will be possible to reach the daily average that is taken by eThekwini Metro,” said Harichunder. He added that good progress is also being made with completion of comprehensive assessment of damage, saying that severe damage to some roads made it impossible for staff of Umgeni Water to instantly gain access to infrastructure for inspection purposes. “Once a full assessment is completed, a clear picture will emerge of extent of damage, financial resources required to repair or replace infrastructure and duration of work before full restoration is achieved. One of the priorities from the assessment report will be preparation of scope of work by 24 April 2022 for service providers and contractors to implement when appointed, said Harichunder.