A guard from the Mi7 Security Group was shot in the arm during an attempted robbery at Dibsons Cash and Carry, in the Pietermaritzburg CBD, on Monday morning. It is alleged that a group of five men walked into the shop pretending to be customers. One of the store managers, Nassem Ahmed, said the group had separated themselves into two groups. He said two men first entered the shop walked around posing as shoppers and they kept putting stuff into the trolley. A few minutes later, another three men also walked in with their trolley, he said. Ahmed said two of the men followed the other store manager who was going to the backroom. “They held the store manager hostage at gunpoint and demanded money from him. They ordered him to give them money and threatened to shoot him,” said Ahmed. He said one of the security guards noticed that something was not right and approached the other three men but one of them pulled out a firearm and shot the security guard in the arm. Ahmed said soon after the gunshot was fired, the five men ran out of the store. He said they ran down Garfield Street where they got into their getaway car and fled. He said they were unable to get details of the vehicle. “Fortunately the men did not take anything and because the incident took place while we were still opening the shop, about 70% of the staff were not here. It was just a few staff and different managers, most of the staff was still making their way to the store,” said Ahmed. Ahmed said: He told The Witness that the injured security guard was taken to the hospital for medical care. A worker who asked not to be named said the incident was worrying. “It is sad and scary that such an incident nearly took place. I was also told about it and it is scary because we may never know who is coming to do crime and who is coming to buy. “We are grateful that nothing was taken and we hope that the guard is going to get well soon” said the worker. Collen Davids from the Mi7 National Group confirmed the attempted robbery incident and said the injured security guard was recovering well. “He is in a stable condition and he is getting the medical care he needs,” said Davids.