Residents from a heavily devastated informal settlement in Durban have started rebuilding their homes and said they are not going anywhere. Ntwenhle, also known as Ehlathini (the forest), is an informal settlement in the Chesterville township, west of Durban. An estimated 1000 people live in this small stretch of land which is built on top of a now flowing river. The corrugated iron houses are built on top of or closely next to each other. Like many informal settlements in Durban, Ntwenhle was hard hit by the recent floods with many homes being washed away, disintegrating or severely damaged. Sizwe Radebe’s corrugated iron house did not suffer much damage but a house on top of his threatens to fall on top of him. When The Witness reached Radebe, he was busy building a ditch that would redirect water flows away from his house. “If it was up to me I would move to another safer area but that’s not possible because the reason we built in a place like this is we had nowhere else to go,” he said. Radebe, who is unemployed but survives through temporary jobs, said heavy rains in the past have damaged houses in the settlement but like this. “Our worry is what happens if the next floods come,” he said. Mduduzi Mthimkhulu said eThekwini Municipality officials have been to the settlement to evacuate residents as the area is not safe. Mthimkhulu, like many residents in Ntwenhle, refused to go live in the community hall while the city finds them alternative accommodation. “My wood house was washed away, I collected the woods and rebuilt again but it is not as sturdy as it used to be,” he said. Ward councilllor, Mthakathi Mkhathini, told The Witness there are close to 200 people being accommodated at Chesterville community hall. Mkhathini said a majority of them had no houses to return to while others were still rebuilding their homes. “Many people have returned to their homes, the priority now is finding temporary shelter for those who were living in dangerous areas as we cannot expect them to return,” he said. The councillors office was a hive of activity on Tuesday with residents picking up or dropping off claim forms. These forms are from the municipality to determine how many people were affected by the floods and whether they are entitled to a monetary claim. Thabani Mvubu, the councillors personal assistant, said they have received over 400 claim forms. Mvubu said many people were requesting money to rebuild their retention or barrier walls. However, working with area volunteers, Mvubu said they have also uncovered people who were trying to claim but did not suffer any damages from the floods. “It’s a shame there are people trying to exploit the system in a time of crisis,” he said. “There are many people who are stuck with their kids and elderly parents with absolutely nowhere to go or money to rebuild.” With water having been out for over a week in Chesterville, due to infrastructure damage, some residents have started washing their clothes by a ‘contaminated’ river. Sindisiwe Shoba said she had no choice. “We know flood water is contaminated but what else can we do as children’s clothes have started getting dirty. If they come back with a rash or diarrhoea, we will deal with that when it happens,” she said. Following the floods which killed over 448 people, government officials have urged communities to stop building along river planes.