The Democratic Nursing Organisation of South Africa (Denosa)
in KwaZulu-Natal has called for the government to prioritise the clearing of
routes to the many affected healthcare facilities. The organisation said this was because access to healthcare
facilities by both patients and healthcare workers has become impossible. According to the province, 306 people have been declared
dead so far due to the floods, and Denosa says hundreds more are in desperate
need of emergency care which they are not able to access due to the damage to
the roads caused by the floods. Sibonelo Cele, Denosa KZN Provincial Chairperson said many
nurses are not able to report for work or go home. He said most of the facilities which have been hit the
hardest so far are in the eThekwini District, with some in the Ugu District and
Umkhanyakude District also affected. Cele said nurses are particularly concerned with patients on
chronic medication who could be in desperate need of their medication but won’t
be able to access healthcare facilities. “Many Community Healthcare Centres (CHCs), those that are
easily accessible, experienced high volumes of trauma cases and they
experienced challenges with transferring patients due to unavailability of
ambulances,” said Cele. Cele said due to floods, night nursing could not be relieved
by the day shift staff due to damaged roads, some facilities are assisted by
nurses who stay in nurses’ homes and some healthcare staff are not able to go
to work due to no water and electricity. He said some facilities have no water, due to water-shedding
that is taking place. “At Manguzi Hospital in Mkhanyakude District, park-home for
managers is flooded with water (but there no reported injuries to staff). While
many people who are left destitute will be accommodated in many public
amenities, DENOSA would like to point that many of them will need to be
assisted with their medication which they may have lost to the floods so that
they do no default on their treatment,” said Cele.