The National Department of Water and Sanitation has all hands-on deck to deal with areas affected by the recent floods around KwaZulu-Natal. The department on Tuesday presented its consolidated storm damage report to water and sanitation infrastructure in eThekwini Metro, Ilembe and Ugu district municipalities. In the presentation, the department said uMgeni River burst its banks and flooded the Sea Cow Lake and Springfield areas. “Umlaas canal burst its banks flooding Sapref and Mondi. Pollution impacts are monitored. As part of the action plan, a war room has been established and meetings are held daily. The war rooms comprise of a team from eThekwini, Umgeni Water, DSW, Human Settlements and roads, and the convenor is eThekwini Water and Sanitation head Ednick Msweli,” reads the presentation. The team has 250 technical staff, with eThekwini drawing from a panel of consultants for assessments and designs where required. According to the action plan, 96% of bulk water production capacity will be restored in Durban Heights April 24. The Northern region of Durban (Kwa-Mashu, Ntuzuma, Newlands, Durban North, Umhlanga, Phoenix and Inanda etc.) were affected by the supply. Southern Durban and Ugu (Umlazi, Adams and Umbumbulu etc) were also hit by water supply due to the floods. The Hazelmere dam water quality has been affected due to high turbidity caused by the floods. This impacts capacity of water treatment works (WTW). The affected areas will be supplied through water tanks. For emergency supply, eThekwini has 100 functional tankers and 52 hired tankers operating. Water and Sanitation has procured an additional 50 tankers for Ethekwini. CoGTA is expected to finalise the procurement of seven water tankers while a local bank donated two focusing on healthcare facilities and mortuaries (not limited to eThekwini). According to the presentation, water supply has improved by 60% in the inner and outer west regions; 50%; 20% and 40 % in the central, south and north regions respectively. Affected areas further to the South Coast are also being attended to.