Many families will be travelling across South Africa to get away and spend quality time with each other as the Easter long weekend approaches from Friday until Monday. Given the increase in traffic on main routes during the long weekend, there is always a spike in crashes and fatalities on the roads during this time. Careful planning and defensive driving are critical to ensuring safer roads this Easter weekend. The N3 toll concession (N3TC) has issued a traffic update for the long weekend, with tips on how to ensure that one gets to their destinations safely. “Poor weather, high traffic volumes, emergency situations and prevailing road conditions may adversely impact road safety and travel experiences. Therefore, it is incumbent on all road users to be prepared for any travel conditions, and to allow sufficient travel time to make provision for possible emergencies or delays,” said operations manager of (N3TC) Thania Dhoogra. She urged people to plan ahead to avoid additional risks such as late-night driving, tiredness and a lack of concentration. According to N3TC, they are also expecting a marked increase in the number of public transport vehicles, including buses and minibus taxis. “Extra caution is required around heavy motor vehicles when it rains and at night, or when visibility is poor. In wet weather, the splash and spray from trucks and buses, make overtaking of heavy vehicles even more dangerous,” said Dhoogra. The N3TC has made provisions for additional road safety and emergency resources to be deployed on the N3 toll route, citing that emergency and law enforcement services will be on high alert throughout the weekend, and should it be deemed necessary, the Roads Traffic Inspectorate may implement special traffic control measures to manage the flow of traffic and to improve general safety along the route. According to the statement, high traffic volumes of 2500 vehicles per hour are expected on the N3 Toll route in a southbound direction (towards KwaZulu-Natal) on Thursday, (between 3pm and 9pm) and on Friday, (from 9am to 12pm). “On Monday, April 18 return traffic is expected to peak at approximately 3500 vehicles per hour northbound (towards Gauteng) between 9am and 3pm,” added Dhoogra. She added that no scheduled construction work will be performed from April 14 to 18 to accommodate the expected increase in traffic volumes. Only emergency maintenance work will be undertaken, if required. Road users can stay in touch with the RCC by following @N3Route on Twitter, or by contacting the 24-hour N3 Helpline on 0800 63 43 57 for a rapid response to emergencies, to report problems, or to obtain verified, up-to-date traffic information on the N3 Toll Route.