Over 60 rhinos were poached at Ezemvelo KZN Wildlife reserves between January and March 25. The figures were provided by the provincial Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs Department (EDTEA) in response to parliamentary questions posed by the DA. Ezemvelo attributed these incidents to a number of reasons, including capacity constraints, limited funding, adjacent communities being vulnerable to collusion and more organised criminal networks. Acting chief executive, Ntsikelelo Dlulane said Ezemvelo has put in place a turnaround strategy that is due to be presented to the provincial cabinet. It includes a motivation for increasing field ranger capacity, improving crime intelligence and linkages with other law enforcement entities, exploring dehorning potential and reviving provincial priority crime structures to improve intelligence and data sharing. He said the strategy also includes introducing other sophisticated tracking and tracing of criminals. DA KZN spokesperson on the department, MPL Heinz de Boer said on Wednesday that the statistics make for a horrifying scenario of ongoing bloodshed in KZN and all indications are that this year’s figures will far outstrip the 97 rhino poached in 2021. He said a host of crime-fighting and anti-rhino poaching techniques that Ezemvelo is now considering were initially submitted by the DA in a bid to curb rhino poaching. “The vast majority of these have been reiterated repeatedly at portfolio committee and legislative meetings, yet have to date been ignored. This includes a DA proposal to form a multi-disciplinary anti-poaching task team,” said de Boer. He said Ezemvelo management’s proposal to increase field ranger capacity; the involvement of crime intelligence and other law enforcement entities and to revive provincial priority crime structures to improve intelligence is nothing new. “This response is a slap in the face to the public and conservationists who have, for years, lamented the poor co-operation between various law enforcement entities and Ezemvelo. “Meanwhile, dedicated crime intelligence operatives — who apprehended and shot armed poachers — have been systematically worked out of the Saps, while an electronic anti-poaching nerve centre in the Hluhluwe-iMfolozi Park is largely dysfunctional,” said de Boer. He added that the only positive when it comes to the response is an admission that the failure to fill critical vacancies has contributed to the poaching crisis.