A 22-year-old Pietermaritzburg woman was sentenced to 20 years direct imprisonment for trafficking her eight-year-old niece in October 2017. The woman was also convicted of rape and kidnapping at the Pietermaritzburg Regional Court sentenced. The incidents occurred when the woman visited her paternal home, in Caluza, and took the child away without anyone knowing, promising to buy her ice-cream. National Prosecuting Authority regional spokesperson Natasha Ramkisson-Kara said the pair were transported by two unknown men to a house in Masukwana Street where the woman met another man and they took the child into the bedroom. Ramkisson-Kara said the men raped the child twice and then the aunt returned and took the child away to an informal settlement where she washed her private parts. She said they were found by a family member the following day and the child was taken back home where she gave the family an account of what happened. Ramkisson-Kara said she was taken to the Edendale Thuthuzela Care Centre, where she received the necessary psycho-social services, counselling and support. Immediate investigations led to the swift arrest of the aunt two days later, said Ramkisson-Kara. In court, Ramkisson-Kara said advocate Samokelisiwe Hlongwane argued for life imprisonment due to the age of the child as well as the fact that the minimum sentence for rape and trafficking is life imprisonment. “Hlongwane also gave the court a victim impact statement, facilitated by court preparation officer Nonhle Cemane and compiled by the child. “In the statement, the child said that her intention was to look after herself and be a virgin until she was grown up, that dream will never be fulfilled. “Also, she was very scared when her aunt kidnapped her and she thought that she would be killed and never see her family again,” said Ramkisson-Kara. She said the court deviated from life imprisonment due to the age of the woman (she was 18 years at the time of the offence), she was a first offender, she had been in custody for more than four years (while awaiting trial), and the court felt that there was a possibility that she could be rehabilitated. “She was sentenced to five years imprisonment for kidnapping, 20 years imprisonment for rape and 20 years imprisonment for trafficking in persons. The sentences will run concurrently, hence the effective 20 years imprisonment,” added Ramkisson-Kara.