The KwaZulu-Natal region is experiencing a downpour of rain with countless reports of floods and mudslides in parts of Durban and Ladysmith. A Pietermaritzburg resident said that she measured 60 mm of rain in her rain gauge this morning. According to a statement released by the South African Weather Services, the weather condition is a cut-off low pressure system that comes with frigid conditions that started on Friday and is expected to come to an end by Tuesday evening. Several reports of flooding and mudslides have surfaced, and residents have been urged to be careful. The Witness spoke to weather forecaster Ayanda Ntsele who said that an 80% chance of rain with a level 5 weather warning for heavy rains leading to flooding can be expected. “Significant amounts of rainfall have already been observed in areas along the coast and a few reports of pooling on the roads,” said Ntsele. SAWS has urged residents to avoid crossing rivers and swollen streams and to take caution when travelling or to avoid travelling as roads may be flooded, with potholes being filled with water, saying that there may be sinkholes. “Flooding of major roads and closure of some roads will lead to major disruptions of traffic flow, along with difficult driving conditions on dirt roads and possible soil erosion, rockfalls and mudslides. Vehicle accidents are possible due to slippery roads,” read the statement. MEC for Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs, Sipho Hlomuka, also released a statement urging residents to exercise utmost caution and where possible, delay and suspend any activities that might leave them susceptive to incidents that might be caused by the heavy rains. “Disaster management teams continue to respond to a number of incidents which include a wall collapse in eThekwini that led to a fatality, mudslides that have been reported in KwaDukuza, flooding of Ladysmith and road damage on the South Coast. Road diversions are being implemented where possible. “Local disaster management teams continue to monitor high-risk areas across the province. Residents who experience any incidents can contact their respective ward councillor or local municipality,” said Hlomuka.