President Cyril Ramaphosa said he was worried when he saw tribalistic posts on social media calling for him to go back to Venda during the July unrest. “I have bitter memories of our past where tribalism and ethnic chauvinism was used to promote hatred and to divide. It is a time I wish we never see recurring in our country,” said Ramaphosa. Ramaphosa was speaking during his testimony on Friday morning at the South African Human Rights Commission hearings into the July civil unrest of 2021. The hearings were established last year by the SAHRC following bursts of violence and looting in KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng that resulted in over 340 people dying. In his opening statement, Ramaphosa defended a speech he made on July 11 where he said “ethnic mobilisation” was behind the unrest. Ramaphosa said the phrase was due to the messages he was seeing on social media referencing his Venda heritage. Ramaphosa said he was showed messages that said “Ivenda alime kancane thina abantu bangempela salungisa indaba zethu” (That Venda must calm down. We, the real people, are still solving our issues) and “Ngeke sizwe ngeVenda” (We won’t take instruction from Venda person). Ramaphosa also referenced CEO of the Pietermaritzburg Chamber of Business Melanie Veness’s earlier testimony in the hearings where she said she saw a truck with graffiti written, “Ramaphosa must go back to Venda”. Ramaphosa said he feared that tribalism was rearing its head again in the country. “It hit a particular nerve. These words gave me cause for concern. Tribalism is something that the organisation I lead, the ANC, has sought to obliterate from the South African political and social landscape.” Ramaphosa said he was grateful that it is a very small minority in the country that harbours tribalistic thoughts. “The majority of our people have refused to be mobilised along these (ethnic) lines,” he said. “I do not agree that what I said could have led to an escalation of the unrest. This cannot be plausible.” Also in his opening statement, Ramaphosa re-emphasised that the July unrest was an attempted insurrection to overthrow the government. This is despite the fact that Lieutenant General Godfrey Lebeya, Head of the National Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (Hawks) and Ronald Lamola, Minister of Justice and Correctional Services, have testified that none of the alleged unrest instigators have been charged for treason (or contravening the Terrorism Act). However, Ramaphosa insisted the nature of the attacks during the unrest, which included the blocking of major highways, torching of trucks, factories and shops showed a deliberate intent of sabotaging the country’s economy and democracy. “Using the pretext of political grievance, those behind these actions have sought to provoke a popular insurrection and sought to exploit the social and economic conditions under which many South Africans live,” he said. “The identities of these individuals and their motives are the subject of investigations and legal proceedings.” Police Minister Bheki Cele recently announced that 17 people have been arrested under the suspicion of being unrest instigators. Ramaphosa said while there was intelligence pointing to instability in the country, the security forces were not prepared to deal with unrest of the scale of the July civil unrest. “This was a failing that we acknowledge which we are hard at work to address. It is also a failing which I also acknowledge,” he said. Ramaphosa’s testimony continues as commissioners are set to question him.