Santam, Fairlady and Truelove magazine are looking for the most impactful, resilient, and inspiring female entrepreneurs in the country to enter the annual Santam Women of the Future Awards. According to a statement released by the trio, this year’s entries are open from Friday, April 22, and close on June 20, 2022. These awards are an opportunity to recognise and celebrate the most incredible female entrepreneurs in South Africa whether they’ve just started a new business or have been running their own business for a while. Truelove editor Makhosazana Zwane-Siguqa said this year’s awards come at a critical point in our country and economy, citing that the country had been through the shock of a worldwide pandemic. “Businesses that have survived the past two years or launched over this period need all the support they can get. We are very excited and honoured to be part of this year’s project with Santam alongside our sister magazine, Fairlady,” said Zwane-Siguqa. Fairlady editor Suzy Brokensha said she finds joy in seeing these talented and brilliant women get rewarded for their grit and effort. “I’ve been one of the judges for the Santam Women of the Future Awards for the past eight years, and I absolutely love it because it showcases exactly what South African women are capable of – it’s extraordinary,” said Brokensha. Mokaedi Dilotsotlhe, chief marketing officer at Santam, added that Santam is committed to showcasing the depth and breadth of talent of South African female entrepreneurs. “We believe that by highlighting their successes, we will inspire the inception of many more women-led start-ups in our country,” said Dilotsotlhe. According to the statement, entrepreneurs can enter one of three categories. The Santam Woman of the Future category, where you have to be 30 years old or older and have a business which is more than 1 000 days old. The Santam Rising Star is awarded to an entrepreneur between 16 and 30 years old who is still within her first 1 000 days. The Santam Social Entrepreneur title is awarded to an entrepreneur aged 30 or older who is making a real difference in her community. Winners also stand a chance to win over R575 000 worth of prizes, receive mentorship and they also get an enormous publicity boost from Fairlady and Truelove magazine. Female entrepreneurs have been urged to enter or to nominate anyone they think deserves to win.