Premier Sihle Zikalala has issued an overview of the provincial incidents following the heavy rains and floods that engulfed the province in the past few days. According to the Premier, a total number of 40 723 people have been affected. “Three hundred and forty one fatalities have been recorded, with EThekwini standing at 301, Ugu at 6, uMzinyathi at 2, King Cetshwayo with 4, and the Ilembe district with 28. A total 0f 55 injuries have been registered. More than 248 schools have been damaged,” said the Premier in a statement. The number of missing people is still being tallied up. Members of the executive council along with mayors and councillors, visited the most affected districts in the province. “We can confirm that the magnitude of the damage which is still being quantified will definitely run into billions of rands,” said Zikalala. The floods have affected the electricity and water supply in the province, with the eThekwini municipality being the most affected. Zikalala has acknowledged peoples' cries of having no water or electricity since the floods began, saying that teams have been deployed and are working hard to return normality to all of their systems. “EThekwini Metro is experiencing major water disruptions due to the damage to two, out of four, of Umgeni Water’s Nagle Aqueducts. These are the aqueducts that supply water to Umgeni Water’s biggest water treatment works called Durban Heights. This waterworks normally supplies about 540 Mega litres per day to the city. “Currently, this capacity has been reduced to about 350 Mega litres per day. As a result, a number of areas have already run out of water. Tongaat Waterworks that supplies the whole of Tongaat suffered serious damage that will take months to repair,” said Zikalala. In the interim, the municipality will be deploying more water tankers and is currently procuring a package plant that will be able to supply water. Umgeni Water and COGTA have also committed to assist with additional water tankers. “We have proceeded with emergency work to clear roads and return access to highways such as N2, N3 and other important networks. More and more areas are becoming accessible and enabling the speed of emergency relief supply,” said Zikalala. According to Zikalala, all responder departments and municipalities are on the ground providing relief support and emergency needs to  communities. He also added that psycho-social support and social relief  including food, vouchers and blankets is being offered through the Department of Social Development to bereaved and affected families. “Municipalities will announce  burial assistance to the bereaved families who need support,” said Zikalala. The Premier continued to invite all sectors of society to lend a helping hand, saying that retailers, shops, industry and business, farmers, neighbours can do something to make a difference.