President Cyril Ramaphosa used Wednesday's Freedom Day commemoration to discourage South Africans from being hostile towards foreign nationals living in the country. Addressing a large crowd gathered at the Kees Taljaard Stadium in Middelburg, Mpumalanga, Ramaphosa said foreign nationals deserved to be treated with dignity. Ramaphosa, who urged South Africans to “build bridges of tolerance”, reminded citizens that foreign nationals from countries such as Zimbabwe and Malawi contributed their cheap labour in the development of the country’s economy during the apartheid era. Even those foreign nationals who were in the country as refugees, Ramaphosa said, should not be subjected to acts of violence. “We are confronting a new menace, a real new challenge of violence against our brothers and sisters. We have seen it in many parts of the country in recent weeks, and its deeply troubling,” he said. He added: Freedom Day is an annual event to celebrate South Africa’s attainment of democracy in 1994. While Ramaphosa conceded that the government had not been able to meet some of the expectations of the citizens, he said a lot had been done to ensure that South Africans were “truly” free. “The quality of life of our citizens has improved from what it used to be under apartheid. “In democratic South Africa, 81% of our people live in formal housing. That was not the case before 1994. “In democratic South Africa, basic education and healthcare is no longer a privilege of a few, but it is now available to all,” he said. While South Africa’s goal to ensure a better life was still attainable, Ramaphosa said “new” challenges were now standing in the way. He said: “Crime and violence are eating up our society. We can only defeat crime if we work together as families, as communities, as leaders and as individuals,” he said. In KZN, celebrations were dampened by recent floods which claimed close to 500 lives. Provincial government leaders, who have been visiting victims and sites of destruction, spent much of Wednesday in a cabinet meeting where they processed reports of the devastation. Meanwhile, IFP president, Velenkosini Hlabisa led a group of supporters in a campaign to clean up the flood-ravaged eThekwini Municipality. DA provincial leader, Francois Rodgers, led a team of the party’s volunteers in Ndwedwe, north of Durban, where he visited some of the flood victims.