SA Football Association (Safa) president Danny Jordaan has assured coach Hugo Broos that there will be no threat to his role should Bafana Bafana fail to make it to next year’s Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon). Jordaan was reacting to the draw that took place in Johannesburg on Tuesday night, where Bafana drew Morocco, Zimbabwe and Liberia in Group K. South Africa narrowly missed out on the final stage of the 2022 Qatar Fifa World Cup qualifiers after losing to Ghana in Cape Coast — a result Safa didn’t take kindly to its officiating. Prior to that, Safa sacked Molefi Ntseki, who failed to guide Bafana to the 2021 Afcon tournament that was played in Cameroon this year due to Covid-19, despite needing a draw with Sudan in the final game of the qualifiers. “No [there’s no jeopardy],” said Jordaan, who has overseen myriad coaching changes in his time as Safa boss. He said: Jordaan also added that the federation would give the Belgian and his assistant coach, Helman Mkhalele, the support they needed to get to the Ivory Coast. “I’m sure the coach and Helman have their plans in place and we’ll see,” Jordaan said. “The first two matches are coming up at the end of May and the middle of June and then it’s all to play for. “We can only support them. Whatever the coach and players require, we’ll be there to support them. The players and the coach must come with the plans and make sure that we get the results. “Look, if you go back to the World Cup [2022] qualifiers, the team played very well. “We were actually top of our group and then the disaster happened in Cape Coast, so now they must regroup and go again.” The 2023 Afcon tournament will take place in the middle of next year. Meanwhile, Broos has given a realistic summary of his team’s challenge by saying Morocco will start as group favourites while complacency may be his team’s biggest threats against minnows Zimbabwe and Liberia. Broos told the Safa website on Wednesday: “I know this team very well. So I think if we want to be first in our group, we have to beat Morocco. On the other side there is Zimbabwe. “We played against Zimbabwe during the qualifiers for the World Cup. We know them very well, we played two times against them last year [Bafana won 1-0 at home and drew 0-0 away], so they are a tough team. But this is a team we have to beat [if we are to qualify] ... “Maybe Liberia are [on paper] the weakest team in the group. But it is always dangerous to underestimate an opponent. So for that, first of all we are going to look at their games, their last few games, see how good they are. “So if we look at this group, first of all Morocco are the best team, Zimbabwe our neighbours, very tough games [against them], and Liberia normally are the weakest team.” — Sport24, WR.