Two grade 11 pupils from Treverton College, in Mooi River, have successfully completed the 246,7km-long Drakensberg Grand Traverse hike. The Grand Traverse is a hiking trail that runs along the Drakensberg Escarpment. It is possibly the most rigorous hike in South Africa. According to a statement released by Treverton, the pupils, Kai Broom (17) and Jarred van Alphen (16) had planned to do the hike over 12 days but ended up finishing it in 10 days. They left on March 26 and returned on April 5. “The pupils were accompanied by Shaun Robertson, a teacher at the school and they carried all their provisions and camped with minimal equipment. “The entire trip was navigated by the students and a team hiked in halfway through the traverse to do a food drop,” read the statement. The Witness spoke to Broom and van Alphen to find out more about their adventurous hiking trip. Broom said one of their teachers, Robertson, came up with the idea of doing the traverse and that it seemed like a tough enough challenge for them to tackle. “Almost every day was a highlight but the moments that stuck out to me was when I was standing on top of the significant peaks with a sense of achievement. As we got closer to the end, the feeling that we were going to complete it not in 12 but 10 days was amazing,” said Broom. Meanwhile, van Alphen said they experienced some difficulty during the trip, but they would not back down. “The hardest part of the trip was day nine. We started off from Sani Pass and walked 33km where there was no path just bushes, rivers, and bogs. By the end of the day, we had racked over 1700m of vertical elevation and felt very tired but relived as we were going to go down the next day,” said van Alphen. He continued to say that he would advise people who want to do the traverse to ensure that they are not just fit and strong but they must also have an experienced team as well as people who are willing to help if someone needs to go down. “Make sure to bring quality hiking gear along and also bring a GPS or a compass because it is needed in order to navigate during times of poor visibility,” said van Alphen.