Former DA KwaZulu-Natal leader Mbali Ntuli has lashed out at the DA’s Helen Zille on Twitter saying Zille is delusional if she thinks her resignation had anything to do with her. Ntuli’s outrage follows a radio interview on 702 on Tuesday where Zille had accused Ntuli of having missed a federal council meeting and of not having attended for a long time. Speaking on Ntuli’s departure from the party, Zille said, “I don’t know if she left because I wrote her a letter saying it’s time she started attending the meetings. She wasn’t attending any of the meetings. She hadn’t been to federal council meetings for a long time.” During the interview, when asked about Ntuli being one of the DA leaders to leave the party, Zille said, “She is not a leader, she was just an MPL”. On Wednesday, Ntuli took to Twitter to “correct the facts” on some of Zille’s comments about her. “Ordinarily I wouldn’t respond to @helenzille because whenever she talks about me it’s either delusional or lies as evidenced by our past interactions. However, I must correct the facts here.” Ntuli said she doesn’t know why Zille was lying about her not attending meetings. “I must address this because it creates a perception of me which could influence my dealings with new people going forward. You should resist the urge to always try and get the last silly word in.” “You and I both know that our only professional interaction @helenzille, thank God, was Federal Council meetings. I resigned from Fed council a year ago. You are aware of this, so what meetings could I have possibly missed from a post I didn’t occupy?” Mbali went on to post screenshots of WhatsApp conversations and emails between herself and Zille. “Admit @helenzille that you aren’t running things very well… with being the Chair, CEO and leader all at once it can’t be easy to keep simple registers and see who are members of your council and who aren’t but then don’t spew misinformation about people. You should apologise to me,” she wrote on Twitter. She said, “You probably won’t respond @helenzille because when confronted with the facts you suffer some cognitive dissonance and blame everybody but yourself. I advise you to stop lying about me because it does the organisation a disservice to be drawn into your constant childish spats.” Ntuli added, “To be clear I am saying you are delusional if you think my resignation had anything to do with you. You know I’m not scared of you and don’t like you so you don’t feature on things I concern myself with. Please try to do the same with me. “The one similarity about us @helenzille is that we both aren’t afraid of a fight. The difference is yours, especially internal ones, are often strikingly without merit and reveal your deep insecurities. Your boy band of interns isn’t ever going to tell you but you really need to grow up,” Ntuli lashed out on Twitter. Zille has not responded to Ntuli’s tweets.