Veteran police officer, now retired, Jack Haskins on Monday paid tribute to Sergeant Busisiwe Mjwara (42), as a dedicated policewoman who wanted only to serve the community. ALSO READ | Family left reeling after Pietermaritzburg police rescue diver’s death Haskins said he had spoken to her grieving colleagues who had told him that she was the one who insisted on going back to the scene where she died, to search for family members who were still missing after their car was swept off a low level bridge. “She wanted to go back. It was her call. It’s extremely, extremely sad. We have now lost two rescuers this year after one died at East London.” Haskins said Mjwara had joined the police while he was still in the SAPS and he had worked with her. Haskins said: He said her colleagues in the police are taking her death “very, very hard”. “They’re shattered. Broken.” He said some of her male colleagues had wept at her death. Haskins said he had maintained contact with Mjwara who would go and visit him at Angels Care Centre, a children’s care centre in Howick. “I always got a big hug and a big smile. She had a lovely outgoing personality. It’s devastating.” Haskins said the work Mjwara and the search and rescue unit was doing during the floods, was very dangerous. He paid tribute to the bravery of those searching in swollen and strongly flowing rivers. Haskins said he hoped that Mjwara’s death would now provide the impetus needed to employ extra manpower and to allow training courses to get going again. He said Covid-19 had put a halt to many training courses. “She wanted to do the dive course. She had not yet done it. She was doing surface work on top of the water. “The dive course teaches techniques and diving methods to be used under water.” It is believed that police divers returned to the place where Mjwara died yesterday to continue searching for those who were still missing. A close source said Mjwara’s colleagues said, “it was what she would have wanted so that their family could get closure”. Mjwara is the second search and rescue officer to die this year. In January, News24 reported that Captain Pierre Marx (53) drowned after rescuing people had been swept away in the Eastern Cape. Marx and his colleagues from East London K9 Search and Rescue had attended to reports of people swept off the Horse Shoe Valley causeway in the Nahoon River. When they arrived there, they found one person trapped with three drowned corpses on an island in the river’s main stream. “The officers managed to take the three bodies across the stream. “After a successful rescue of the complainant, who is believed to be a local farmer, Captain Marx struggled with a strong current sweeping him, despite attempts by his colleagues to rescue him,” said police spokesperson Brigadier Tembinkosi Kinana. 