A man who murdered his girlfriend’s two sons was sentenced to life imprisonment. He burned them in their home out of revenge after his relationship with their mother soured. Siyanda Dion Khumalo (36) of Gamalakhe, Port Shepstone pleaded guilty before Judge Thoba Poyo Dlwati to the murders of Amkela Zenda (14) and Sandiso Zenda (six) on March 31. They died in a house fire started by Khumalo, who admitted on Monday to having “chopped” Amkela with a bush knife before setting the house alight and leaving the children to die. According to the prosecution, the boys’ mother, Vamisile Zenda was involved in a relationship with Khumalo, which became so acrimonious that she applied for a protection order against him. In a plea statement read out to the court by Khumalo’s legal representative, Amanda Hulley, Khumalo said during February this year, Vamisile asked him to leave his job and stay home to guard the children, promising to pay him R400 each month. He did this, but the couple grew apart and “argued often”. At that time, Khumalo said he had another girlfriend who was pregnant. On March 30, police came to the house and served a protection order on Khumalo, who was told to leave Vamisile’s house. This “upset” him. He phoned her and asked her to give him the R400 she owed him, but she refused. Khumalo said that he again asked Vamisile for the money on March 31, after his girlfriend requested money for medical attention as she had miscarried. “Vamisile said she will not give me the money. I became upset and overcome with emotions … I decided to go to Vamisile’s house and seek revenge,” he said. When he got there, she was not home, but the two children were in the house. He said he struck Amkele with a bush knife on his neck and set the house alight with him inside, causing his death. He also caused the death of Sandiso, who was sleeping inside and burned to death. In a victim impact statement, the boys’ aunt, Mthethelele Zenda, said the murder of the children left the family “with depression and sleepless nights”. “The incident took away our joy, peace and happiness and left us with unbearable pain, we have been in shock since the day of the incident,” she wrote. Describing the effect the loss of her children had on Vamisile, she said her sister is “confused at times”, was in a state of shock and is always in tears. She said her sister “lost everything” including her house, and her life was meaningless. The judge sentenced Khumalo to life imprisonment for the murder of the boys, and eight years’ imprisonment for arson.