Nkululeko Informal Settlement residents, in Northdale, Pietermaritzburg, who were affected by floods are urging government and Msunduzi Municipality to assist them in getting a safer and permanent place to stay. Three families in the area were left homeless after their houses collapsed during the heavy rains on Monday. On Thursday, KwaZulu-Natal Education MEC Kwazi Mshengu visited the affected families to assess the situation. He was accompanied by Msunduzi Mayor Mzimkhulu Thebolla, deputy mayor Mxolisi Mkhize and other officials. They also visited low level bridges that are still overflowing, in Sobantu and Grimthorpe Avenue, Lincoln Meade. Mshengu said what they have seen is bad. “When we were in the briefing, I raised an issue that we now need to look to long term sustainable solutions of human settlements. Where do we allow our people to settle?... “We are lucky right now that no casualties were reported but we will not wait for such to happen. As a government we will try and find a way to intervene and see how we can assist these people in getting better houses,” he said. After visiting the bridges, he said it has become clear that proper planning of infrastructure was needed. Meanwhile, affected residents of the settlement say they no longer want to stay in unsafe places because they fear for their lives. Andiswa Magashane said, “The house almost fell on top of me. When I noticed that the house was going to collapse I tried to rush to the door to exit but I could not because the door was already blocked. “We had to break the wall and open a space so that we could exit safely with the children. Our wish is to find a safer place where they can live permanently because we have seen that this place is not safe,” she said. The residents said they lost everything, and they are currently squatting with their neighbours. Malisena Muhlakwane said, “To think that I almost died inside the house with a two-month-old baby makes me never to want to come back here again. I no longer want to stay here, it was such a bad experience that I do not want it to ever happen again in my life.” Thebolla said the municipality will be moving the affected residents to a community hall while they sort out temporary houses.