The DA has called on the KZN Department of Education to come up with a strategic plan to address some of the challenges faced by the province’s schools. This emerged during the DA’s oversight visit conducted in KZN schools this week. Party’s provincial spokesperson on education Dr Imran Keeka said the infrastructure at certain schools was not ready to receive pupils. The recent storms that caused damage to the infrastructure rendered some classrooms unusable. According to a report, pupils in the Pinetown District schools remain unplaced for the 2022 academic year. In November last year, the portfolio committee on education called on all provincial education departments to fix the challenges in provincial schools. “The DA witnessed the destruction at Windsor Secondary School with some classrooms still filled with water, text books and equipment destroyed, and flooring within the school now dangerously slippery. “While teaching and learning at Joseph Shabalala Secondary School also in the uThukela District has resumed, an entire block including science laboratories has been destroyed due to heavy winds and rain. “This school has an enrolment of 1 339 pupils and will not be able to ensure all of its learners are in school at the same time. This means that until such time as that block is repaired, a rotational timetable will have to stay in place, mobile classes will have to be provided and additional staff made available to cope,” Keeka said. It was also alleged that some pupils in the Pinetown District had not yet received their report and transfer cards. “This is the case at [a primary school in Pinetown] where the principal has [allegedly] demanded that full school fees be paid up while also refusing any form of payment arrangement for parents.” Provincial spokesperson for the Education Department Sihle Mlotshwa said: “We are going to ensure that all pupils in the province are placed before the end of the month.” In Ladysmith, he said the department had to first ensure the safety of pupils and teachers after the town was flooded.