Sharks coach Sean Everitt expressed high disappointment after his men threw away what seemed like certain victory against the Stormers in the United Rugby Championship (URC) in Durban on Saturday. His men fell back from a half-time lead of 11-3 to draw the match 22-all with the Capetonians, who were down by 22-15 near the death. The Stormers were awarded their second penalty try of the night after the hooter had gone and burgled two valuable points from Kings Park. Though the Stormers fought hard to avoid a defeat, Everitt’s team’s ill-discipline, combined with horrendous kicking for the poles, is largely to blame for the result. “I think we did everything right probably for 71 minutes and we threw it away at the end,” said a visibly disappointed Everitt after the match. “We’ve learnt lessons in this competition that the small mistakes you made have consequences, and I’m not talking about the big ones, especially discipline. “Unfortunately, we didn’t execute our kicking game well enough, and I’m talking about kicking to poles. It sometimes happens.  “There were other opportunities that we had to win the game and, unfortunately, discipline cost us at the end of the day,” he said. “I think, at the end of the day, it comes down to discipline, that’s what you don’t want to do, just giving away penalties and put yourself under the pump. I think though we didn’t lose, we beat ourselves.” The Sharks also had Lukhanyo Am and Khutha Mchunu sent to the “naughty chair” during the game and at one point the Durbanites were reduced to 13 men on the field. ALSO READ | Sharks coach Everitt salutes Kolisi, Fassi The Sharks also missed at least five kicks to the poles, as young flyhalf Boeta Chamberlain had a disappointing day at the office, aside from an eye-catching drop goal. But the coach will still back the youngster going forward. “I suppose you have your off-days with the boot; you know not too long ago we played the Ospreys, and he was the hero and got the Man of the match for his kicking,” said Everitt. The Sharks and Stormers will meet again at Cape Town Stadium next weekend. The other derby went the way of the Bulls against the Lions on Saturday.