Thousands of devotees from the eBuhleni faction known as the Shembe Church embarked on their three-day annual pilgrimage to the holy mountain this week. The pilgrimage, which attracts thousands of Shembe devotees, began on Monday under strict Covid-19 regulations. Every year the Nazarites (Shembe congregants) trek barefoot for more than 90kms from Inanda, in eMatabetulu, north of Durban to Mount Canaan (Khenana) in Ozwathini, between Ndwedwe and Greytown. The church’s annual pilgrimage was on hold for almost two years due to the pandemic. Spokesperson for the eBuhleni faction, Thokozani Mncwabe, said the Covid-19 health protocols will be observed during the pilgrimage. “Our leader Inkosi uNyazilwezulu advised all the devotees to wear face masks and sanitise regularly during the pilgrimage. Worshippers have also been advised to continue to observe the Covid-19 protocols in the mountain,” he said. Clad in traditional attire and white ropes, the devotees are expected to climb the Canaan mountain on Wednesday morning. The leader of the eBuhleni faction, Inkosi Mduduzi Nyazilwezulu Shembe, is leading this year’s annual pilgrimage to the mountain. During this spiritual journey to the mountain, teachings and values of the church are being celebrated. According to the elders of the church, Prophet Isaiah Shembe, who is the founder of the church received the holy spirit at the Nhlangakazi Mountain in the Ndwedwe area, however, uNyazilwezulu changed the location to Canaan mountain. During the holy month of January, no one is allowed to eat fermented food including bread. Senior preachers of the church carrying the Ark of the Covenant lead the pilgrimage followed by Amakhosi, reverends, evangelists and junior preachers. The men known as iNhlalisuthi follow the junior preachers. The next group behind the men are maidens(Amakhosazane) and married women (uJamengweni). During the pilgrimage to the mountain, devotees perform numerous rituals which include the carrying of stone on their heads.