A sad decline of what could be a world-class conservation site was highlighted during the DA’s recent oversight inspection of the Pongola Nature Reserve, in northern KwaZulu-Natal. DA KZN spokesperson on economic development, tourism and environmental affairs (Edtea), Heinz de Boer, said the visit to the nature reserved revealed how Ezemvelo KZN Wildlife has let its facilities and campsite fall apart, with broken ablution facilities, overgrown campsites and collapsed roofs being the order of the day. De Boer said electrical fittings seemingly had not worked in months, while fallen trees littered the campsite. Essentially left to rot, added de Boer, the reserve fronts the 17 000 hectare Pongolapoort Lake, which is one of the biggest freshwater systems in South Africa and the only system that supports the ferocious Tiger Fish. “Tiger fishing and associated game and tourism initiatives remain one of the biggest job creators in the Umkhanyakude District — which continues to rank as one of the poorest districts in our province. Yet the ongoing failure by Ezemvelo to upgrade facilities in provincial conservation facilities have all but killed visitor numbers to the nature reserve,” he said. Interviews with local conservation experts have further revealed that the large-scale poaching of fish stocks with gill nets has continued unabated, added De Boer. He said nets as long as 300 metres continued to be retrieved from the lake system, with tons of fish being lost on a monthly basis. “Questions to KZN Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs (Edtea) MEC, Ravi Pillay, have now revealed that Ezemvelo will not patrol or curb any poaching on the lake surface — delegating responsibility to the National Department of Water and Sanitation,” he said. ALSO READ | Friends of Bisley recover bridge at Pietermaritzburg nature reserve De Boer said had it not been for the SAPS Water Wing and its recent valiant actions against poachers, South Africa’s unique fish and its associated tourism value would slowly be decimated. However, Ezemvelo spokesperson Musa Mntambo told The Witness that the Golela Campsite closed about five years ago following an executive decision, saying that it was no longer feasible to run it. He said the campsite was only used as a stand to pitch tents for fishermen which generated no revenue. He added that the Nkonkoni Bush Camp was available.