Geologists have predicted that further severe tropical cyclones could hit KwaZulu-Natal in the future. This is according to an international study led out of the University of KwaZulu-Natal (UKZN) and published in the journal Nature Geoscience which investigated seabed sediments and revealed that severe tropical cyclones made landfall on the eastern coast of South Africa in the past and that under projected climate change conditions, these damaging phenomena could arise in the future. While reconstructions of past storminess exist for the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, the same cannot be said for much of the Indian Ocean, making this research important in filling a gap in knowledge to help understand what could happen under changing climate conditions and rising sea levels. Head of the Marine Geology Research Unit at UKZN, Professor Andrew Green led the research with Honorary Research Professor Andrew Cooper and Shannon Dixon from UKZN, Professor Matthias Zabel and Dr Annette Hahn from the University of Bremen’s Centre for Marine Environmental Sciences in Germany, and Dr Carlos Loureiro from the University of Stirling in the United Kingdom. The team of geologists examined the sediment record from the seabed off the coast of Durban and found that there was a period — under higher sea levels — when storms were much more extreme than they are now. “We found distinctive sediments that were deposited by severe storms that struck the coast between approximately five and seven thousand years ago,” said Green. He added: The period of increased storminess coincided with warmer sea temperatures in the Indian Ocean and this allowed tropical storms to travel further south than they do presently. Loureiro carried out modelling of the storm waves and analysed how current ocean trends and climate projections aligned with past climate conditions. “This important work demonstrates that the past climate conditions that allowed very intense tropical cyclones to reach the South African coast are very similar to the ones projected now under climate change,” said Loureiro. “By confirming that these conditions existed in the past, our work provides strong support to recent climate modelling studies indicating that tropical cyclones are likely to migrate poleward in response to global warming.” At present tropical storms are usually confined to Mozambique but renewed ocean warming because of climate change could once again allow them to travel south, with potentially disastrous implications for cities like Maputo, Durban and Richard’s Bay, which are all likely to suffer devastation of beach front infrastructure and severe flooding.