A community member was shot during a protest over water
outages in Umzinto, on the KwaZulu-Natal South Coast on Monday. ALSO READ | All entrances to Umzinto on the KZN South Coast blocked due to protest Provincial police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Nqobile
Gwala confirmed that the victim was shot on the leg. She said about 150 people started blocking roads with
burning tyres from 4am, adding that the road leading to the Umzinto town were
closed for most of the day. “Police are still on the scene to monitor and stabilise the
situation,” she said on Monday afternoon. Meanwhile, community activist Ash Moodley alleged that it
was people from Riverside Park who shot at the group that was protesting. He said the shooting happened after they handed over their
memorandum of grievances. “We met with Ugu District Municipality’s leadership and they
assured us that since we have handed over the memorandum, we won’t have water
outages and they left. But after they left, the shooting started,” said
Moodley. He added that the road that were initially blockaded would
be closed until the person who fired the shots was found. “We are not here violently, we wanted water to be restored
in our taps but now we also want justice for the innocent people who were
injured,” said Moodley. Residents, who had been battling with an intermittent supply
of water and stoppages, from areas including Ghandinagar, Hazelwood, Nkonkas
and Roseville [Sanathan, Mistake Farm and Farm Isonti signed the petition
submitted to Ugu officials. Moodley said they had been struggling with issues since
2021. He said they were standing in solidarity with the affected
community because water was a basic need for every single resident in South
Africa. He added: “There are people from all communities - we are
standing in solidarity to state that if Ugu District Municipality fails to
provide the services that we are paying for then they need to go under
administration because they are the middle man at the moment. “They are getting water supply from Umgemi Water, so if they
can’t do their jobs they need to go under administration and be controlled by
people who can give us the services that we are paying for.” On Monday the office of KZN Premier, Sihle Zikalala,
announced that he would be on the Ugu district on Tuesday to address the water
issues in the area. “The premier’s visit will create a platform for stakeholders
representing their respective constituencies to robustly and frankly reflect on
the water crisis in order to delve deeper into the causal factors and oversee
the implementation of the Water turnaround plan for Ugu District,” read the
notice from Zikalala’s office He would be accompanied by the MEC of Economic Development,
Tourism and Environmental Affairs Ravi Pillay, MEC of Cooperative Governance
and Traditional Affairs Sipho Hlomuka as well as the mayors of local
municipalities and Councillors. 