In the third week of January most people are already finding it hard to keep New Year’s resolutions. Durban-based clinical psychologist Lindelwa Mkize said resolutions fail due to a lack of strategic planning. He said many people mistook a resolution for a wish. “At the beginning of the year, people are overwhelmed with excitement and end up making goals that will never materialise. Many people often think that the new year will come with better opportunities in their lives. This raises false hopes that their plans for the year ahead will work out. “We all hope for better things ahead. But for some, a few days or even weeks, it becomes difficult to see their resolutions through, once they realise that it actually requires some effort. There are possibly a few factors that contribute to individuals giving up on their New Year resolutions," said Mkize. “What you wish for and what you know you need to do towards a certain goal are not the same. “That requires action, dedication and discipline and more importantly requires sacrifice. Perhaps in setting a resolution, we need to ask ourselves what lasting change do I want to see?” Mkize said a resolution needs to be a part of the everyday life and very much connected to the thoughts. “Setting a resolution is easy, but it will soon become difficult if a person has not made it a part of their daily routine. People should focus on the goal that they have set for themselves. Make your resolution a part of your daily routine. Understand that change is a process. Make a resolution to be mindful of your resolution,” Mkize said. A Grade 12 pupil Thando Zwane from Greytown told The Witness that improper planning and lack of concentration are among some of the main reasons that new year’s resolution fail. A KZN resident Ganga Moodley said creating a concrete plan every year helps in achieving goals for the year. “Personally I don’t engage in making new year’s resolutions, but I look at the year ahead and work on my plans that did not materialise the previous year. Making new resolutions comes with hype and pressure. I choose to work on at my own pace,” Moodley said. Brian Walker said making new year’s resolutions have become a tradition to for many people. “I personally don’t do it because it they never work out,” he said. 