Eskom has encouraged members of the public to play an active role in curbing infrastructure vandalism and illegal connections. Eskom said they continue to experience high incidents of theft and vandalism of its distribution infrastructure around the country. The perpetrators vandalise and steal transformers, bypass meter boxes, substations, control rooms security fences and copper cables impacting on the security of supply. In November last year, Eskom chief executive Andre de Ruyter confirmed in a press briefing that there was a deliberate act of sabotage near the Lethabo power station in Vereeniging that almost led to a power crisis and higher stages of load shedding. An electricity pylon had been cut and felled ahead of the evening peak period on November 17. Eskom distribution senior manager and customer services Portia Papu said the power utility is embarking on a vigorous communication campaign to create awareness about the impact of electricity infrastructure vandalism on the security of supply to the communities. The campaign will also address the dangers of illegal connections to community members, in particular the younger generation. Eskom said the campaign is set to initially target the identified areas where vandalism and theft of electricity infrastructure is very prevalent, however, will also be extended nationally early in 2022. According to Eskom, network overloading that is exacerbated by illegal connections, meter bypasses, cable theft and vandalism of the essential infrastructure leaves communities without power for extended hours. Eskom urged members of the community to be whistle blowers and report incidents of infrastructure vandalism and illegal connections. Distribution Group Executive Monde Bala said: “Vandalising Eskom’s assets is a criminal act that leads to financial loss for both Eskom and community members. We need the involvement of communities and community structures to help us fight the scourge of electricity theft by reporting theft and vandalism.” Eskom asked members of the public to report criminal activities by reporting illegal connections, theft and vandalism of electricity infrastructure to the toll-free Eskom crime line number: 0800 112 722 or to the nearest police station.