A Ladysmith woman, Khatija Hoosen (62), said she helplessly watched in horror as the roof of their home was ripped off during a devastating storm on Sunday evening. “Where are we going to stay?” said a still shocked Hoosen. Hoosen, who was at home at the time, said that she was in her room, when the storm struck her home in Madras Road. She said her family has lost everything. “Just when we thought the New Year was going to be kind to us, this year, this happened.” Hoosen’s duplex home is the only house that was severely damaged in the area. The duplex had housed over twelve people, including Hoosen and her family. “It is so unbelievable to witness our home with no roof, and other people have their roofs as if nothing had happened.” Gale force strong winds and heavy downpour had swept across most parts of Ladysmith. Hoosen and her neighbour, who lives in the duplex, said that they had run for their lives, thinking that it was the end. “I stood in the doorway and minutes later, the roof was gone,” said Hoosen. She said that she thanks God that her grandchildren were not home at the time. “It could have been worse, but we as a family have lost everything.” Hoosen, who stays with her daughter, her partner, and three children, were busy trying to mop and salvage what was lost in the storm on Monday morning. “We only have one room with the roof still in place, but it is completely flooded,” she said. Trees and the main electrical power lines were also damaged in the area, leaving most parts without electricity. A resident in Residency Road also had to flee his home at night after a tree crashed down into his home. “There was a huge crashing noise, and we took cover, seconds later a tree broke through our door and roof,” said the man who asked not to be named. Alfred Duma Municipality employees are currently working in the area affected. “Disaster management teams are currently working together in the area,” said an official. It is reported that over 60mm of rainfall had fallen during the freak storm. Parts of the CBD area, such as Lyell Street were flooded due to localised flooding.