The DA has called for the prioritisation of the recommendations from the Moerane report to curb political violence in KwaZulu-Natal. The call comes on the back of the death of ANC eThekwini councillor, Minenhle Mkhize, who was shot outside his home on Saturday night. Mkhize’s murder comes three months after another ANC eThekwini councillor, Siyabonga Mkhize, was shot and killed. Martin Meyer MPL, DA spokesperson on c-ooperative governance and traditional affairs (Cogta), said it was important that all councillors are able to execute their duties without fearing for their lives. “... Being a ward councillor in our province seems to be one of the most dangerous jobs in South Africa. “The overall murder rate in our country remains unacceptably high. It also cannot be denied that internal strife within the ANC has led to the continuation of political violence in our province,” Meyer said. Meyer said the solution to the political violence did not lie in spending millions of rands in private security, but implementing the Moerane report recommendations. The Moerane Commission of Inquiry was established in 2016 following a sharp rise in political killings in the province. The commission’s report was released two years later and recommends that parties do more to educate their members on public servitude and conflict resolution. Nhlakanipho Ntombela, ANC KwaZulu-Natal Spokesperson, said the party had mechanisms in place for the peaceful resolution of issues. “Minenhle had no security threat assessment against him, he was under no danger, there were no problems in his ward, nothing. What you need to ask yourself is why are the police failing to deal with this,” Ntombela said. Ntombela said the recent killings of councillors were more of a criminality issue then a political one. “Minenhle had no security threat assessment against him, he was under no danger, there were no problems in his ward, nothing. What you need to ask yourself is why are the police failing to deal with this,” he said. No arrests have been made for Mkhize’s death. Sipho Hlomuka, Cogta MEC, released a statement on Monday condemning the assassination of Mkhize, saying it “sent shock waves across the sphere of local government within our province”. “The forces that are hell-bent on destabilising this sphere will not succeed,” he said.