The 2021 Independent Examinations Board (IEB) national senior certificate examinations pass rate has increased from the previous year. CEO of the IEB, Anne Oberholzer, said this year’s pass rate is 98,39% which is slightly higher than last year’s pass rate of 98,06%. She said everyone who passed achieved a pass with matriculation exemption, a legal requirement to study a bachelor’s degree. A total of 12 857 full-time and 968 part-time candidates across South Africa wrote in 267 venues. Oberholzer said the number of candidates also increased from 2020. She added the journey for the class of 2021 was different as they experienced disruptive changes of an unprecedented nature within a relatively short space of time. “The class of 2021 had to find new ways to deal with the challenges they were served and build the resilience, courage and persistence to overcome them. We cannot underestimate the impact of disappointments of missing out on key social events that are key in a matric learner’s life, the important social experiences that are fundamental as they grapple with young adulthood, and the frustration of uncertainty that Covid-19 brought to almost every facet of their lives,” said Oberholzer. She added the difficulties were overwhelming and devastating for many pupils who lost family members and parents to Covid-19. “Parents and breadwinners lost their jobs and incomes due to a declining economy, and many learners fell victim to the scourge of domestic violence that amplified as lockdown and domestic financial stress grew,” Oberholzer said. ALSO READ | How to help matrics with poor results She added that the fact that the examinations took place during the fourth wave was testimony to the strength and capacity of teachers. “We commend the candidates, their teachers and parents for a job extraordinarily well done,” said Oberholzer. She added that of 609 learners writing advanced English, 93,6% achieved a pass mark of 40% or higher. Headmaster of Hilton College, George Harris, said the college achieved a 100% pass rate, which was an improvement on 2020’s 96%. Scoring nine As each were Richard Karlson and Jonathan le Roux. “At Hilton College, we aim for excellence in all spheres of learning, and achieving distinctions is not the only measure of academic excellence. We believe that excellence is the attainment of a boy’s personal best. The class of 2021 continued to improve upon their results year on year, and this is cause for celebration,” said Harris. ALSO READ | Matrics start their final exams with ‘tricky’ CAT paper Richard Karlson said he was nervous about his results but knew he had worked hard from the beginning of the year. “I found that the exams were much easier than I expected because the prelims were tougher, especially Physics,” said Karlson. He said he was waiting for responses from overseas institutions where he hopes to study. The Wykeham Collegiate also achieved a 100% pass rate. Principal Sue Tasker said all the pupils passed with matriculation exemption, with a grade average of 75% and an average of 2,8 distinctions per pupil. “They have done themselves and the school proud, and we congratulate all of them on their results and thank them for their contribution to the success of The Wykeham Collegiate,” said Tasker. One of the two top pupils who achieved 100% for mathematics, Maeve Miranda said doing past mathematics and physics papers and asking for help from teachers helped her. “I needed to fix everything before the finals. I am planning on studying medicine or molecular biology at Wits university or Stellenbosch,” she said. One of Kearsney College’s top pupils, Ben Robertson said he was happy to be one of two pupils in his matric class to achieve eight distinctions. “The biggest thing was that I found a routine that worked for me and I stuck to it as consistently as possible,” he said. Like last year’s matriculants, Robertson and his classmates had to write their final examinations during a Covid-19 pandemic. “It made it harder because of the situation at school with all these routines. “Even at home people were getting sick and there were certain things you could not do, so it was definitely difficult,” he said. “My biggest highlight in school has certainly been being a boarder. [I enjoyed the range of] experiences in the boarding house. I made some friends for life.” Robertson said he will be studying civil engineering at Stellenbosch University next year.