Residents of Msunduzi’s Ward 38 were left frustrated after
not being able to vote for their preferred candidates to serve on the ward
committee. On Saturday, Pietermaritzburg's Msunduzi Municipality was
holding ward committee elections in all its 41 wards. According to an official notice released by the
municipality, voting would started at 9am and was scheduled to last for three
hours. However, when a group of Bishopstowe residents arrived at
the Thamboville Hall voting station at 9am, there was no one there. One resident told The Witness that it was “the most
unorganised election I have ever been involved in my entire life.” After waiting at the venue, a government official eventually
came to address the residents. “She (the official) asked us if we had heard a loud hailer
asking us to come to vote,” said a resident who did not want to be named. “I
think she did not expect so many people to show up.” The resident said the name of their preferred candidate was
not on the list. After 12pm with no voting having been done, the residents
left. Darryl Simonf, member of the Patriotic Alliance, said he was
supposed to be one of the candidates standing for election but his name was not
on the list. Simonf said he submitted his nomination forms well before
the deadline. “Our nominations are now null and void. They want to do
renomination. This is corruption at the highest level,” he said. Simonf alleged there were people who deliberately sabotaged
the election after realising they were not going to win. Eunice Majola, the Msunduzi Municipality council speaker,
said she was aware of the issues reported in Ward 38. “What I heard is that at Ward 38 they started a bit late.
When I spoke to the people there they were complaining, saying there was
supposed to be a loud hailing announcement seven days before elections which
doesn't make sense to me as people will forget,” she said on Saturday. Majola said there was constant communication from the City
through their social media pages, adverts in newspapers and a loud hailer
street campaign on Friday. Majola said she was still waiting on a complete report
regarding the situation before any decisions were taken. Other than Ward 38, Majola said the municipality had not
received complaints from other wards.