Just as the residents of the northern areas thought their December festive season could not get any worse ... People living in parts of Ward 30 & 31 have had no consistent water supply since New Year’s Day. This is according to DA councillor Ross Strachan, who said the Msunduzi Water Department have not communicated clearly when the situation will be resolved. Strachan said DA Councillors Rooksana Ahmed and Rachel Soobiah have been in constant contact with the department with very little or no feedback. “It is abundantly clear that the municipality’s capacity problems go very deep within the technical departments and the lack of available communication from the dysfunctional call centre makes [relief] virtually impossible. “The DA [in] Msunduzi will continue to place the necessary pressure on both municipal and provincial authorities to ensure that the lack of basic services is immediately addressed and those that are negligent are held accountable,” he said. Ahmed said residents in the Deccan Road, Newholme Way, Balhambra Way, Innes Avenue and Chota Motala Road have been without water for nine days. She said the water department “has lacked in communication and urgency in dealing with this issue, citing the bursts at the cemetery, Northdale Hospital, and Lahore Road as the cause”. “We have pointed out that this is a problem which has been reported for over two years to water managers and nothing has been done, except to point out the underground leak in Deccan is a natural spring... “However, this is not the case, as whenever there is no water in this area this underground leak also dries up. “We have engaged with senior management of the water department and urged senior managers to intervene accordingly. senior manager Brendan Sivparsad, together with Dees Ragoonandun will be physically investigating and [will] try to resolve [the problem] as soon as possible. We have also urged that contractors are deployed to resolve this ongoing and longstanding water pressure problem once and for all. We cannot rely on the lack of capacity and excuses any longer, there must be action from the senior management who have the capacity and experience in dealing with this crisis. “Water is a resident’s basic right, but not apparently at Msunduzi.”