A group of University of KwaZulu-Natal students blocked the entrances to the Pietermaritzburg campus on Monday morning, demanding answers from the university. According to the university, there were also attempts to set alight an office at Howard College in Westville, Durban. Chairperson of the Economic Freedom Fighters Student Command (EFFSC) at the Pietermaritzburg campus, Menzi Ngcobo, said they were expecting the university to act on their demands by the end of the week or they’ll continue protesting. Ngcobo said they were demanding three things: for the university to do away with permits for students to access campuses, for university staff members to return fully to campus and to get financial clearance for returning students in order to complete their registration. “The university wants us to have permits even though the country is on alert level one and no permits are required. Getting these permit takes about two months and there’s not even a link on the website to apply for it and we therefore reject them,” said Ngcobo. He added student accommodations have opened and students were unable to access them without permits. “We are rejecting these permits. Once a student has registered they must return to campus without having to wait for permits,” Ngcobo said. He added students were struggling to get assistance from the UKZN staff. “Students send emails requesting for assistance but it takes them over two weeks to get a response,” he said. Ngcobo said many of them had not received funding clearance which made it difficult to complete their registration. “Registration closes by February 7, yet students have not received clearance.” The university has condemned the protest. The executive director, Normah Zondo, said a group of about 30 individuals blocked the main gate preventing staff from coming into the Pietermaritzburg campus. She added the action follows calls made by the EFF Student Command encouraging all new and returning students to come to campus. “The registration process continues online and the university further wishes to advise that all returning students i.e. students who studied at UKZN last semester are provided with data and have been given laptops so that they will be able to do everything remotely,” said Zondo. She added the risk management services personnel supported by the police and private security are monitoring the situation to ensure the safety of legitimate students, staff and property.