DStv Premiership club Maritzburg United have scored a ground-breaking partnership with German outfit Arminia Bielefeld that is aimed at creating a passage for local youth to bigger leagues overseas. The two-year co-operation agreement between United and the Bundesliga side was announced at a dual press conference hosted by the clubs. Bielefeld, who have had a few South African players such as Delron Buckley, Sibusiso Zuma and Rowen Fernández in their set-up in the past, joined the briefing from Germany. United hosted media and other guests at the world-class Msunduzi Athletics Stadium in Pietermaritzburg. Current Maritzburg coach Ernst Middendorp, who is in his fourth stint with the club, also had three coaching tenures at Bielefeld. The crux of the agreement includes both clubs exchanging and sharing scouting expertise and forging the development of youth talents from South Africa and Germany. Announcing the news in Pietermaritzburg, the Team of Choice chairperson Farook Kadodia said they are incredibly excited about this agreement with a club from one of the most successful leagues in Europe. “The club, Bielefeld, has a rich history in German football and this will create new great opportunities and experiences for our club,” said Kadodia on Tuesday. “This agreement will also bring benefits to both our club and our city of Pietermaritzburg at large. “It also presents the unique opportunity to exchange knowledge, ideas and resources with an international club, demonstrating our commitment to drive our brand to the next level,” he said. “This move serves to reinforce the quality and the talent pool present in this province which has historically produced some of the best soccer players, playing both locally and abroad. This relationship can only create more opportunities for talented players to showcase their talent abroad. ALSO READ | Maritzburg United add more signings to their squad “We will continue to extend our presence throughout South Africa through this unique agreement,” he said. Over the years, Maritzburg has helped to develop and expose budding players from the City of Choice such as Bandile Shandu and Siphesihle Ndlovu who are now playing for Orlando Pirates. Earlier this month, the club confirmed promising Bafana Bafana striker Bongokuhle Hlongwane, who they discovered in the rural area of Bhobhonono outside the city, signed with American team Minnesota United. The German representatives insisted on United creating proper youth structures in order for partnerships to be a success. The agreement will also see the two teams have a series of digital coaching courses for their coaches, while at some point they will travel between the two countries for learning purposes. While media reports have suggested that the agreement was mostly reliant on the under-pressure Ernst Middendorp being at United, Kadodia said the coach only joined the partnership conversation three days before the announcement. However, during the announcement the coach said he was going to be the driving force of the partnership, which leaves us to question what happens if he gets the boot. “We hope that the coach will turn things around and stay with us for a longer period,” said Kadodia. With 12 games to go, Maritzburg find themselves 13th on the log table with just 15 points. They are two points above bottom of the table TS Galaxy. Meanwhile, the Premier Soccer League has confirmed that the Nedbank Cup last-32 fixtures will kick-off on Friday, February 4 till Sunday, February 13.