A KwaZulu-Natal high school teacher will be boarding a plane to Dubai for the Global Teachers Awards in March. Khangelani Sibiya, popularly known as “Babes we Maths”, teaches mathematics and physical science at Mbusowabathethwa Secondary School at KwaMbonambi, in northern KwaZulu-Natal. He is also the deputy principal at the school. Sibiya said he was nominated for the third time as the best teacher at the Global Teachers Awards. In 2019, he was in India for the awards ceremony. “In 2019, I was also selected to be in a panel where we discussed challenges faced by teachers in different countries,” he said Sibiya is known by many for his teaching techniques where he uses social trends, latest music, dance moves and sport to illustrate maths and science to his pupils. “There’s so much stigma around maths and science that’s making a lot of pupils scared taking these subjects in high school. I want to change that with my techniques,” Sibiya said. During lessons, Sibiya and his pupils use a tune of any trending song and add lyrics about different topics, important definitions, either for maths or physical science, to make it easier for the pupils to remember. “I believe when they are in an exam room, they are able to remember easily because they sing these songs every day,” he said. Sibiya added he was looking forward to engaging with other teachers from across the world at the awards ceremony. “I’m the only teacher from South Africa who has been nominated and I’m proud to represent my country. I’m currently preparing for my trip to Dubai although it’s a bit difficult having to fund everything myself.” Sibiya said he loved being a teacher and was grateful his work was being recognised. Sibiya started helping pupils with maths and physical science from his days as a student at the University of Zululand. In 2011, he started a Maths and Science Tutoring Center at Aquadene Secondary School in Richards Bay and has since expanded his services to Mzingazi area. He added he also visits schools across the province to help pupils with maths and science.