While business owners in Durban were trying to salvage items from their burned down shops on Friday morning, they were also having to deal with looters. At least seven shops burned down on Thursday evening following a building fire in Durban central’s AB Xuma (Commercial) Street. Sifiso Mbatha, acting divisional commander of the eThekwini fire and emergency, said there were no injuries or fatalities reported because of the fire. “When the first responding ambulance got here, the first floor was well alight. There was also a lot of people on the ground and goods in the building, but Metro Police came and moved the people,” he said. “We managed to deploy [water] hoses to all the spheres of the building and we tried to prevent the fire from escaping into the other buildings. We had two teams that went inside to fight the fire.” The fire was contained at around 10pm with adjacent buildings being saved from damage. There were reports on social media that the nearby Liberty Liquor building was burned down but this is not true as the shop did not suffer any damage. Mbatha said investigations were underway to determine the cause of the fire. On Friday morning, mop-up operations had begun in the area. Most of the shops that burned down belonged to foreign nationals, The Witness understands. The shops include a salon, internet cafe, butchery, pawn shop, a spaza and retail store. Safari Balemba, a Congolese national and owner of the burned down Safe Solutions Computers, said he was closed when the fire started. Balemba said he lost about 36 computers in the fire including those that belonged to his clients. “We don't know what is happening or where we can get help to get out of this situation,” he said. Balemba said the second floor of the building was used as a storage site for many street vendors who sell items in Durban central. The second floor was totally gutted and had collapsed by Friday. In the midst of the operations, looters had also descended onto the site for scrap and metal.