After two years without Art in the Park due to Covid-19, artists are excited for the upcoming 58th festival. The Sanbi KwaZulu-Natal National Botanical Garden said they are ready to accommodate people for the event, which will run from April 28 to May 2. Acting marketing officer from Sanbi Mbuso Zondi said the garden has prepared its infrastructure to welcome all who will be attending the event. “We have enough capacity to support all the activities that will be taking place during the event,” said Zondi. Menzi Lembethe of the Big Bone Creations International said it would be his first time at the festival as a solo artist. “I have been here before but as a student. I was happy to know the event will be happening this year because I get to showcase my work as an individual artist,” he said. Zanele Dlamini, who has been part of the festival for four years selling her beadwork, said she is also thrilled there will be an event this year. She was seconded by Sphumelele Ndlovu from the Elephant Nguni Skin, based at Impendle, who said the event was important to them as creative people. Dumisani Mhlongo, director at the Msunduzi Pietermaritzburg Tourism Association, said the livelihoods of many artists had been affected in the past two years as a result of Covid-19. “The Art in the Park festival plays an important role in the lives of many local artists, besides the fact that it is a key event on the city calendar. We are committed to delivering a high quality event that is safe, exciting and fulfilling for all our stakeholders and patrons,” said Mhlongo. The festival will run from 10 am to 10 pm daily, but will close at 4 pm on the last day. Creative Arts College CEO Kevin Palium said the event has the potential to bring people together once again. “It has the potential to stimulate the economy, more especially as a much-needed platform for South African artists,” said Palium. Sanbi KZN National Botanical Garden, Msunduzi Pietermaritzburg Tourism Association and Creative Arts College are some of the partners of the event.