Rhino horn syndicates which generally target government reserves, are now also turning to private game reserves. The latest data released by the Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment this week, indicates that a total of 451 rhino were poached in South Africa in 2021, 327 in government reserves and 124 on private property. “While there is a 24 percent decrease in rhino poaching compared to the pre- Covid-19 period, in 2019, there has been an increase in poaching on private properties,” the department said in a statement. In 2021, 209 rhino were poached for their horns in South African national parks – all in the Kruger National Park. The department said the steady decline in rhino poaching at the Kruger Park is related to an increase in the intensity of anti-poaching activities in the park. “A close working relationship between the police endangered species unit and the South African National Parks environmental crimes inspectorate has resulted in increased arrests and convictions. One of the unintended consequences is that poaching syndicates are looking to other areas for easy prey and this has resulted in their targeting of private reserves in Limpopo and Mpumalanga. “Over the last year conservation and anti-poaching efforts have intensified countrywide... “Our analysis capabilities have also improved, resulting in the increased identification of those involved in rhino poaching and trafficking and improved and expanded investigations by multi-disciplinary teams,” said the department. “Government continues to work closely with the private sector and non-governmental organisations through the Integrated Strategic Management of Rhinoceros approach and the draft National Integrated Strategy to Combat Wildlife Trafficking to address rhino poaching.” It added that in 2021 there were 189 arrests in connection with poaching activities - 77 within the Kruger National Park and 109 outside the park. A total of 156 people were arrested countrywide in 2020. In the 38 verdicts handed down by the courts, 37 cases resulted in the conviction of 61 rhino poachers and traffickers. “South Africa remains committed to safeguarding the country’s rhino populations, and will continue to work tirelessly, alongside the private sector, committed NGOs as well as authorities in transit and destination countries, to combat wildlife crime,” said the department. Members of the public are urged to report any suspicious activities around wildlife to its environmental crime hotline which is 0800 205 005 or call the number 10111.