The Comrades Marathon will have its 95th edition in August with a maximum of 15 000 fully-vaccinated runners, it was announced on Thursday. The ever-popular race is back after a two-year hiatus caused by Covid-19 and this is going to be the 47th down run in Comrades history, according to the Comrades Marathon Association (CMA). It has an appropriate slogan of “The Return – Sishay’ Ibuya”. CMA said at the race’s official media launch in Johannesburg on Thursday that it is going to be a fully-vaccinated affair on August 28, starting at the Pietermaritzburg City Hall at 5.30 am and ending 12 hours later at the Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban. The official distance is 90,2 kilometres. Said CMA chairperson Mqondisi Ngcobo: “The slogan is such a natural fit for this year’s upcoming event. The return of the Comrades Marathon, let alone all other road-running events, is something that runners have been eagerly awaiting. It is therefore with a great sense of pride and pleasure that we unveil this campaign, issue details around our upcoming 95th Comrades Marathon and create the conditions for our athletes to run the race that they love so much.” The entry limit has been capped at 15 000 due to current national legislation limitation on mass-participation events. Moreover, all entrants will need to produce their Covid-19 vaccine certificate to complete their entry status by July 12. The opening date for entries is March 23, when the first entry window period commences and runs for one week until March 31. During this window period, only those entrants who had successfully entered the 2020 Comrades Marathon will be able to enter, be they from South Africa, Rest of Africa or International. The entry fee for South African athletes is an increased R1 200, but will be discounted to R1 000 in the first entry window period. The “Rest of Africa” and international entrants in the 2020 Comrades Marathon had their entries deferred to either the 2022 or 2023 race and will not pay an entry fee. During the second entry window period for this year’s race, from April 20 to May 16, all other athletes will be allowed to enter. Entry fees for these entrants are R1 200 for South Africans, R2 000 for Rest of Africa and R4 500 for the internationals. However, entry is free to all runners who have completed the Comrades Marathon 25 times or more, according to CMA. The second entry window period will not apply should the entry cap be reached during the first entry window period. CMA reminded runners that Athletics SA rules only allow for online entries and will be done via the Comrades Marathon website. Prize money and other incentives will be confirmed later.