ANC-run municipalities in KZN have lost their grip on the SA Local Government Association (Salga) and the IFP is now in the driving seat. The elective conference for the association’s KZN leadership failed last month when it was adjourned after what insiders said was an attempt by the ANC to hijack the process. On Monday, the conference was reconvened and after a long day of negotiations, the ANC walked out but since the IFP made the quorum, the conference continued into the evening. DA speaker in the uMngeni Municipality, Janice Holmes, said the provincial 2022 Salga conference has failed to deal with its business even after being postponed and reconvened. “At both sittings of the conference it was ANC member municipalities that frustrated the proceedings. This seemed to be a desperate attempt to retain control of Salga leadership after the ANC’s poor performance in the 2021 municipal elections. “It is a sad state of affairs that the business of local government, which is basic service delivery, is being hampered by power struggles and politicians playing games with each other,” said Holmes. The conference focused on electing the new leadership that will steer the organisation and the sector for the next five years. The provincial executive committee is the highest decision-making structure in the province and all municipalities were offered an equal chance to nominate and elect the leadership of their choice. After the ANC walk-out, the conference proceeded and elected IFP councillor Thami Ntuli, the mayor of King Cetshwayo District Municipality, unopposed as Salga KZN chairperson. Three deputy chairs and six ordinary members will represent the province at the national executive committee, the National Council of Provinces and provincial legislature. There are 21 seats altogether in the structure and the new chairperson, Ntuli, said the behaviour of some delegates was unprofessional. “During the negotiations we conceded to the demand of the ANC-led municipalities. They wanted six seats of the 21 even though numbers were against them. They wanted to hold on to Salga leadership even though they have no legitimate right. We conceded to their demands and yet they still walked out. It became clear that they were not interested in being part of the process and leadership of Salga,” said Ntuli. He said they are ready to present the voice of reason to the national government with the aim of addressing the imbalances that have existed in municipalities. The DA has two representatives and the EFF has one. On Monday, the situation was chaotic at the Olive Convention Centre in Durban when proceedings failed to get underway, with delegates having to leave the venue after spending the entire day trying to get processes going. In the middle of the chaos Holmes lost her council-issued laptop which she had put down on a chair. Holmes said: ANC provincial spokesperson Nhlakanopho Ntombela said allegations that the ANC had tried to hijack the Salga elective conference are nonsensical. “How do we hijack Salga processes where each municipality is entitled to only one vote? If you have five municipalities then you have five votes so calculate the municipalities that are in the province,” said Ntombela.