Msunduzi Municipality has disconnected uMngeni Municipality’s lights. The City said uMngeni owed them R3,5 million on its electricity account. Msunduzi announced this in a press statement late on Friday night. The statement said uMngeni Municipality “was issued notices monthly, however no response was received”. Msunduzi said a final demand was issued in October 2021 and on Friday the disconnection was carried out. “Such debt makes it difficult for the municipality to fulfil its obligations of delivering services to its residents and consumers; therefore, the municipality remains undeterred in the quest to enforce credit control measures and it will vigorously pursue all the culprits who are contributing to the debtors’ book.” The DA snatched uMngeni municipality from the ANC in last year’s local government elections. uMngeni mayor Chris Pappas said
he was aware that there is an outstanding amount that was brought to the
attention of the uMngeni Municipality in October 2021 during the previous
administration. Pappas said unacceptable that the officials involved did not
resolve the issue and make the necessary arrangements to pay the outstanding
bill. “In this regard I have instructed the acting municipal
manager for a full report by Monday. There will be consequences for those
involved. It cannot be acceptable that four months lapse without basic
administrative processes being followed.” He said UMngeni Municipality has since been in contact with
the Msunduzi Municipality about making a payment on Monday. “They are fully aware that municipal bank accounts close at
4 pm on a Friday. The timing and date of the disconnection is highly irregular
in terms of the Msunduzi disconnection policy. One can only attribute this to
political interference in the process, nothing that we are not prepared for,” he
said. Pappas said uMngeni received its audit outcome which points
to systemic weak internal process including lack of leadership, management and
oversight. “It also points to the severe lack of consequence
management. This audit is a reflection on the final year of the previous
administration and is exactly the type of behaviour that has led to the Hilton
Hall property disconnection. This must and will change. “As the uMngeni Municipality we will also be reviewing
outstanding amounts owed by local, district and provincial entities. We are
aware of the lack of payment of rentals and water for some properties owned by
the uMngeni Municipality and millions of rands owed relating to rates. “The situation is regrettable, and we take full
accountability and commit to settling the outstanding amount,” said Pappas. 