Dunveria Secondary School in Northdale started off their day with a prayer session on Thursday. The school has experienced its most challenging times in the last few days, after a mass hysteria saw pupils hallucinating, screaming and vomiting on Monday. According to the school’s principal, Sughendran Gounden, after talks with the school’s governing body and the department of education, they decided to embark on a spiritual intervention to provide a safe learning environment for the pupils. ALSO READ | Spiritual leaders to ‘cleanse’ Pietermaritzburg school after mass hysteria The intervention included a traditional healer, who cleansed the school on Tuesday, and pastors who prayed for the school. “Pastors in our area were invited to pray to further purify the school of any negative energy. Sustained prayer is our only answer to unseen forces,” said Gounden. Pastors from three different churches were invited on Thursday, for a prayer session during assembly. “We sent out a letter on Wednesday notifying parents that classes will resume and that we will have a prayer. I was so shocked at the attendance, It’s a very good attendance. I thought we would get about 150 children after what happened on Monday. We have 920 pupils in this school, and it looks like majority of them showed up,” added Gounden. ALSO READ | Mass hysteria as pupils hallucinate and faint at Pietermaritzburg school When asked what really transpired on Monday, he said that he can’t say what really happened. “Even I can’t explain what happened, we’re still doing the investigation to find out where we can put our feet so we can strongly say this is what happened,” said Gounden. “On Monday, after break, at around 11pm, one child just started screaming and ran out of the classroom, she said there was something there but could not explain what it was. Then other grade nine pupils in the same block followed and seemed to be experiencing the same thing, showing this challenging behaviour. “I can assure you that it had nothing to do with Tik Tok challenges at all, there were no disruptions, no children throwing bricks, no dancing, it just happened randomly, and it seemed like there was some negative energy,” added Gounden. The school has decided to have a sustained prayer until Sunday and teachers have been instructed to start their day off with prayer everyday going forward.