Miss South Africa, Lalela Mswane (24), said she was overwhelmed by the reception she received on her return to her home province of KwaZulu-Natal. “I was a bit anxious when I got here today because it has been a journey but to be well received is the most humbling experience ever,” she said. Mswane was speaking at the King Shaka International Airport on Friday. The Richards Bay-born model is back in the country following her controversial participation in the Miss Universe competition which was held in Israel. Mswane received a lot of backlash for deciding to go to Israel, a country which has been described as an Apartheid state by Human Rights Watch, B’Tselem (a Jewish human rights organisation) and the United Nations’ Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia (ESCWA). The SA government also withdrew its support of Mswane shortly before she departed for Israel. However, Arthur Ntuli, the mayor of King Cetshwayo District, said his city would always support Mswane. Ntuli was leading a delegation of dignitaries, young models and fans who welcomed Mswane at the airport amid much fanfare. Ntuli said Mswane was a great example to young people of KZN and had made the country proud by finishing as the second runner-up in the Miss Universe competition. “We are giving you an assurance as leaders of King Cetshwayo that we are 100% behind your journey,” said Ntuli. “We never anticipated that during this important time of our lifetime that we would have a courageous, intelligent, brave and emerging youth that not only appeals to South Africans but to the universe.” As part of her three-day tour, Mswane is expected to meet King Misuzulu kaZwelithini today, at the KwaSkhululu Sports Ground for a homecoming event before going home. Since being crowned Miss SA last October, Mswane said her life has drastically changed. “It has been one of those surreal moments. I have been exposed to so many different people from so many different countries and opened my eyes to the harsh reality that we all face especially as women,” she said. During the press briefing at the airport, Mswane was asked for her reaction to the news of former Miss USA, Cheslie Kryst’s suicide last weekend. Mswane said she met Kryst at the Miss Universe pageant and described her as a “very lovely lady”. “I think it goes to show that mental health issues don’t have a face, they don’t look like anything. “The importance of taking care of your mental health has been brought again into the spotlight and I think we still have a lot of work to do around that,” she said. “There is a lot of stigmatisation around mental health and I hope that we can get to a point where it is not taboo to speak up about it. It is sad to see someone suffering in silence.” Mswane’s mother Hleliswele said she was very happy to see her daughter again after such a long time. “She has made us so proud. We are going to have a ceremony at home this weekend where we will slaughter a cow to give thanks,” she said.