Two people were convicted at the Rustenburg Regional Court on Monday after they were caught keeping three adult Southern African Pythons illegally, and in atrocious conditions. The Johannesburg Wildlife Veterinary Hospital said the snakes were discovered back in 2019 and were confiscated and taken to their facility. “They had a myriad of health conditions, examples of which included being injured and underweight, having burns from incorrect lighting and suffering from severe dehydration and stress. “It took months of veterinary treatment and rehabilitation work before they were healthy enough to be released back into the wild,” said the hospital. After years of postponed court dates, docket contents disappearing, pandemic delays, unavoidable changing court dynamics and many kilometres on the road back and forth to the Rustenburg Regional court, the hospital said the two accused pleaded guilty and judgement and sentence was handed down on Monday. Both were charged for contraventions of the Nature Conservation Ordinances and NEMBA legislation as well as the Animals Protection Act. The sentence handed down by Magistrate Samuel Maboho was a R50 000 fine for each of the accused or five years imprisonment, all costs the hospital incurred while caring for the snakes and the costs the NSPCA incurred to rescue the snakes, to be paid in full (in excess of a further R85 000), and both accused declared unfit to own or be in charge of any reptiles or rabbits. The hospital said it discovered that live rabbits had been thrown into the enclosure as food for the snakes. “Not only is this illegal but the rabbits had suffered neglect and abuse as well.” Magistrate Maboho’s judgment included a wish expressed that this judgment and the costs awarded would not only show appropriate punishment but would also serve to deter individuals from committing crimes such as these in the future. “The magistrate said that many would pose the question as to why a snake was worthy of such a sentence, but he went on to justify that he passed down this sentence to try to ensure that our children and our grandchildren and our great grandchildren get to see this species live, and not just in a picture on a wall somewhere. “This regional court judgement is a phenomenal precedent setting sentence for not only snakes, but for all reptiles in SA. “We celebrate this win and applaud and thank everyone involved in this massive achievement,” said the Johannesburg Wildlife Veterinary Hospital.