An owner of a shopping centre in the Drakensberg has been accused of keeping animals in a tiny enclosure with no shelter. The owner is allegedly keeping llamas, a donkey, a horse, a pony, geese and a peacock in poor conditions. Les Goldsworthy told The Witness that the matter was reported to the National Council of Societies for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (NSPCA). “These animals are sitting there in the sun and it is terrible.” She said that after speaking to the Mooi River SPCA, she was made aware that they had reached out to the NSPCA which will be launching a full investigation. “The zoo is constructed on the side of the road and seeing the animals there every time we drive past is terrible. The owner has peacocks cooped up in a tiny cage,” said Goldsworthy. She added that the animals had to bear the recent high temperatures of over 40° Celsius. “There is a small pony which gets fed this dry grass and is never exercised,” said Goldsworthy. Ashraf Vawda, who manages the property and animals on behalf of his father, denied the allegations, saying they comply with the requirements of the state vet, the SPCA and the Department of Agriculture, Land Reform and Rural Development. “Before we got any complaints, I applied for all the necessary permits and everything here was declared legal by the SPCA, the state vet and the Department of Agriculture. “The state vet even came to do an inspection; they were happy with the condition of the animals and I have documents to back that up,” he said. Vawda said the allegations about how the animals are kept have started to irritate him. He said the SPCA has been to the property over 10 times after receiving complaints. But every time the SPCA inspectors came, said Vawda, they failed to find any non-compliance issues. “Despite the documentation that I have, these residents continue to fight me because of the colour of my skin. If the department tells me to fix one or two things, I will happily do that because I will do everything in my power to be compliant,” he added. He said the animals have shelter, food and a place to sleep. He said that the cages may look small to someone walking by, but they are bigger than the requirements set out by government. Goldsworthy said she accepts that Vawda has gone through all the right channels and has all the right documents, but “what he is doing is still cruelty to animals”. National SPCA Meanwhile, national inspector at the NSPCA farm animal protection unit, Navesh Singh, told The Witness that in November 2021, an inspection was conducted by the KZN provincial veterinarians responsible for assessing applications for the Performing Animals licence and the Mooi River SPCA, and the owner was advised by the veterinarians not to operate as a petting farm until he complied with the provisions of applying to the Department of Agriculture, Land Reform and Rural Development for the licence. “I was informed last month by one of the KZN veterinarians who is dealing with this matter that the owner has submitted an application for a licence to the department and it is being considered. “In terms of the department, there is a criteria for the housing and accommodation of animals being used for exhibition and if they are of the opinion that the current pen sizes are inadequate, they will request the owner to rectify it before a licence can be granted,” said Singh. Singh added that concerns observed by the NSPCA during an inspection last year were that two alpacas and four angora goats needed to be groomed. He said the confinement at the facility was not in contravention of the Animals Protection Act, 71 of 1962. Singh said they would ask the Mooi River SPCA to follow up on the welfare of the animals at the facility.