The Premier has hit back at DA reports that he misled the public about the cost of the Royal queens’ cars, saying the amount given was minus VAT. In a statement late yesterday, Lennox Mabaso, KZN provincial government spokesperson, said a close examination of the report will reveal that there is no contradiction in what the Premier said. Party chief whip in the provincial legislature Zwakele Mncwango, had called for Zikalala to issue a public apology for having misled them about the amount of money spent on buying new SUVs for the Zulu royal queens. The response revealed that five of the six cars – Toyota Prados - were bought at a cost of more than R1 million each (R200 000 more than the national government prescripts on each vehicle). Only a sixth car – a Toyota Fortuner – was purchased in line with national government prescripts, at a cost of R673 000, and the total budget for the six cars – R5 million – was overspent by R695 467. Late last year, Zikalala handed over five brand new vehicles for the wives of the late King Goodwill Zwelithini and a sixth vehicle for the queen’s mother. At the time, he was quoted in a December 17 newspaper as saying that “the value of the vehicles bought for the queens was below R800 000 for each one of the six vehicles, in line with the prescripts of the national government”. “It is difficult to understand why the Premier lied about these costs during the handover. Certainly, he wasn’t under any pressure at the time to justify any expenses. The question is whether he deliberately misled the people or whether he was given the incorrect information by his own officials. If the latter is the case, then he must indicate exactly who misled him and what action will be taken,” said Mncwango. He said Zikalala has been extremely evasive when it came to the purchase of a seventh vehicle for the late Queen Mantfombi’s household. “Originally, his office committed to doing so and the budget for this car was allocated. However, the purchase did not go ahead. Regrettably, the Premier does not seem to want to provide answers on this despite the DA now having submitted two written parliamentary questions on this issue. When he took office, the Premier signed an oath where he swore to always conduct himself in an honest and transparent manner. The DA believes that by not being truthful, he is in contravention of this pledge,” he said. However, Mabaso said the  actual vehicles are within the R800 000 range in line with what the Premier had said. "Mr Mncwango is conflating VAT and the actual prices of vehicles - a mathematics problem ..." He said this was a "continuation of his campaign started in 2015 to ridicule and demonise the Royal Household". "In 2015 Mr Mncwango in Ethekwini published a demonising statement calling the sponsoring of Zulu Maidens conference a waste. complaining about the King’s flights. That narrative moved to the budget for support to the Royal Household, hypocritically this happened as he glorified the opulent lifestyle of the British Monarchy. This deliberate distortion especially on Royal Household matter is a continuation of his pet project to ridicule and demonise the royal household.... "We know there are those who are having sleeplessness nights about the government support of the Royal Household as the current government is doing with recent purchase of cars for the Queen and Queen mother, [and] the security upgrades currently taking place at all Royal Palaces.Government has no regrets with its support of the Zulu Royal House which is an embodiment of our way of life.Not even the manipulation of truth will shake the government commitments and support to the Royal Family." The costs of the cars was revealed in response to DA parliamentary questions on Tuesday.   