The South African Petroleum Refineries (Sapref) and its shareholders BP and Shell will suspend refinery operations at Sapref by the end of March. “This will be for an indefinite period but with a re-start possible in the future, including in the event of any future sale,” the company said in a press statement. It said the decision was taken after consultations with government, unions, and employees. “The decision has been taken to allow an informed finalisation on the various options available to the shareholders, a sale option being the most preferred.  The company said the decision to halt refinery operations currently had no impact on full-time employees, and safety remained a primary consideration. Going forward, the company said, the shareholders would use other existing assets and trading arrangements to ensure ongoing security of fuel supply to the country and their consumers. Chief executive of BP SA, Taelo Mojapelo, said Sapref had made immense economic contributions at both a local and national scale. “For this reason, we continue to pursue the sale of our share in the refinery so that it can continue to advance its legacy as a reliable, safe and productive asset. Leading up to the refining pause, we have put contingencies in place to ensure that this decision does not impact our customer-facing businesses in South Africa or our fuel supply obligations. “We remain committed to South Africa through our demonstrated transformation initiatives in the value chain and continue to work with our strategic partners to strengthen our differentiated convenience offers,” said Mojapelo. Shell Downstream SA country chairperson, Hloniphizwe Mtolo, said the decision to pause the refinery was a difficult one for both shareholders. He said Shell remained committed to the security of supply to customers over this production pause. “South Africa continues to be a key location for Shell as we progress our growth agenda as an energy provider of choice and a nation builder,” he said. Environmentalists have welcomed the suspension of operations at the refinery, saying it would bring relief to the health of those living in the area. South Durban Basin Environmentalist Des D’Sa said the pausing of operations at the refinery was a welcome relief. He said it was regrettable that the communities living close to the refinery have not been consulted about this development. “This is a relief, and we welcome it. Hopefully they will engage the communities at a later stage on how they are planning to decommission the plant. These oil companies behave like they run this country. “Hopefully they think about the people who have suffered long-term effects of being exposed to elements that compromised their health. “I also hope that they have a plan for the workers when they finally close,” said D’Sa. Another environmentalist working closely with GroundUp, Rico Euripidou, said people in the area have suffered from high levels of carbon monoxide and exposure to benzine fumes. “Benzine is classified as a carcinogen, a substance that promotes or leads to the formation of cancer. “Now that they are closing, are they going to rehabilitate the area or are they going to leave behind contaminated soil and water? “We said it is for the best that they stop their operations,” said Euripidou.