According to research from the University of Michigan, around 40% of Covid-19 survivors develop long Covid-19. That’s over 100 million sufferers worldwide – based on the global number of infections from October last year. Battling long Covid-19 can be a difficult experience and, when it comes to insurance, you should be upfront and open with your insurer. Sanlam’s chief medical officer, Dr Marion Morkel, said long Covid-19, as defined by the World Health Organisation (WHO), presents as a post Covid-19 condition in individuals with a history of probable or confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection, usually within three months from the onset of Covid-19. The symptoms tend to last for at least two months and cannot be explained by an alternative diagnosis. “From an insurance perspective, we view long Covid as we do any other diseases. In certain instances, we may need more detailed information when a client applies for insurance cover; and then use that information to assess the risk based on the product applied for. “In the event of a claim, we carefully consider the symptoms, clinical findings, and impairment as a result of a claimant’s experience with Covid-19 complications. We then measure and assess these as well as treatment response against our definitions.” As has been the case throughout the pandemic, Morkel said long Covid-19 is a new phenomenon and that means that their understanding of it is still very much work in progress. She said that the lack of certainty has had a big impact on our lives, especially when it comes to insuring ourselves. How to spot it: Typically, long Covid-19 is what happens when you still display Covid-19-like symptoms long after you have recovered from it. Morkel said, “Common symptoms include fatigue, shortness of breath, cognitive dysfunction but also others, which generally have an impact on everyday functioning. Symptoms may be newly onset, following an initial recovery from an acute Covid-19 episode, or persist from the initial illness. They may also fluctuate or relapse over time.” She said according to doctors at the WHO, there have been more than 200 different long Covid symptoms reported in patients across the globe. “Given that we’re going into the third year of pandemic conditions, this disease is still relatively new, and we are learning daily as we review the global experience. “As an example, recent research has shown that cognitive dysfunction is a far more frequent symptom than previously documented. The most frequent cognitive symptom noted is short-memory challenges.” As for how long these symptoms need to persist before they can be described as long Covid-19, Morkel said there is no hard and fast rule, but four weeks after a Covid-19 infection is the general consensus. She said as they also learn more about long Covid-19, their treatment plans have become far more targeted and unique for every individual diagnosed with this. This is encouraging for those who currently struggle with symptoms. What this means for you: So, while long Covid-19 can be a tough experience and while you may not be able to specifically claim for it, you may still have recourse. The important thing is to be upfront with your insurer. Undoubtedly, Dr Morkel said the best armour against this condition is to follow sound medical advice. “Take care of yourself, follow best practice Covid-19 protocols, and be upfront with your employer, so they understand why you might not be able to bring your A game on difficult days,” she said.