A Pietermaritzburg man has become a TikTok sensation after sharing his life story on how he managed to overcome his whoonga addiction. Tankiso Motaung (24), from Imbali, told Weekend Witness that the positive feedback from TikTok users has left him overwhelmed with joy. Motaung, who now has just over 13 500 TikTok followers, touched many hearts when he shared his whoonga addiction story. He said he started derailing when he was 15 years old after he moved from Imbali to KwaPata to live with his biological mother. “It wasn’t long after I moved to KwaPata that I started hanging out with the wrong crowd and they introduced me to weed.” Motaung said his mother died the following year, which left him distraught, and he turned to whoonga for comfort. “For the first three weeks my friends would share their whoonga with me for free but when I started experiencing cravings and pains from not smoking, they cut me off and told me that I needed to hustle for my own high,” said Motaung. He said he started stealing, lying, and would move from one relative, or friend, to another to run away from the troubles he had caused. He dropped out of school in Grade 11 and moved to the notorious Ematsheni Beer Hall, where many whoonga addicts and criminals lived. After eMatsheni was demolished in 2016, Motaung moved back to Imbali where he continued using whoonga and stealing from community members. Motaung said he has lost several friends to vigilantism, but said fortunately for him, he was never caught stealing or beaten by community members. “I started thinking how fortunate I was that I had never been beaten by the community, but I realised that I wouldn’t always be lucky, and that scared me.” He said after much thought, he decided to go back home to apologise and ask them to take him back. “They were hesitant at first, but over time they saw that I was genuine and wanted to change. “I stayed in my room for about three months detoxing. It was hard and painful, but I told myself that I wanted to change my life around, and I did. “Two weeks after I went back home, three of my friends were killed in a vigilante attack. Had I not gone back home I would have also been killed because I was always with my friends.” Motaung has been clean for four years now and works at a recycling centre in Woodlands as a health and safety officer. He told Weekend Witness that he has no plans of using drugs ever again. “My heart breaks every time I see my old friends who are still addicted to whoonga — sometimes I even cry. I always preach to them that it is possible to change and tell them that if they do decide that they want to quit drugs I will help them,” he said. Motaung said his dream is to one day open a rehabilitation centre to help other youngsters who need help quitting drugs.