The bodies of two eThekwini Municipality employees, who were washed away during the recent floods, have been found. Solomon Shandu and Simphiwe Cele were swept away on Saturday while on stand-by duty. The municipal vehicle they were travelling in was found on Monday submerged in a river at Osindisweni, north of Durban. It is believed that their vehicle was swept away while trying to cross a low-level bridge across the Ogunjini River, near Verulam. Msawakhe Mayisela, eThekwini Municipality spokesperson, confirmed their bodies had been found on Thursday by search and rescue teams. “Their bodies were recovered in Umdloti River, which is a considerable distance from where their car was retrieved,” he said. Mayisela said the teams have been searching since Monday at Osindisweni where the car was found. “However, due to a strong ... current that was posing a threat to the lives of the divers, the search operation had to be aborted,” he said. “The following day [Tuesday], the teams then embarked on an aerial search with no success. [Thursday] their efforts yielded positive but sad results,” he said. Mayisela thanked the rescue teams for not giving up the search and conveyed condolences to the families of the employees. Meanwhile, eThekwini also sent its condolences to the family of one of their employees who was shot and killed in Umlazi on Wednesday night. ALSO READ | Search for drowned eThekwini staff suspended The employee who worked at the City’s water and sanitation unit was on stand-by and sitting in an official municipal car when he was gunned down. “It is not clear at this stage what the motive behind his murder was,” said Mayisela. This murder brings the tally to three municipal employees in the Water unit that have been killed this year. In March, Amos Ngcobo was killed in the Springfield municipal offices, while last month a senior eThekwini municipal employee Phumzile Qatha (36) was shot dead while on duty at one of the water stations in Ottawa, Verulam. Mayisela said the City was concerned about this pattern and called on law enforcement officials to get to the bottom of it.