Ekukhuleni High School Grade 12 pupil Owethu Mgaga has pleaded with local leaders, and Alfred Duma and uThukela municipalities to please provide water to the area. “It’s been tough, really tough these last few days. there’s been no school, and I can’t even have a bath,” said Mgaga. Her plight also affects thousands of other residents within Ezakheni, Acaciavale, Rosepark and Chesty Place in the Ladysmith area. Residents have been without water for almost two weeks. “The schools are closed due to the fact that there is no water and on some days there is no electricity. It is really interfering with my school work as I need to concentrate on my points. I need good marks if I want to continue my studies, but can’t do it living like this. We need water, please do something and help us,” said Mgaga. Roads leading into eZakheni were closed off yesterday, as disgruntled people protested about not having water. The long weekend saw many residents having to stand for hours, queuing for water. Some areas were reported to not have seen a water tanker for days and had to resort to collecting water from a “local spruit”. On Saturday residents made their way to eMbizeni Water Works — which supplies Ezakheni, Acaciavale, Rosepark and Chesty Place — to try and spot the main cause of the water shortages. It was reported that the plant was badly infiltrated by silt. uThukela District Mayor, Inkosi NB Shabalala, said that Ezakheni, Acaciavale, Rosepark and Chesty Place use the river as their main raw water supply as opposed to some other areas that get supplied from constructed dams. He said the construction company on site was hired to get the systems back to working order. He said while the municipality hoped the water supply would be restored soon, a report revealed that their expectations may not be met. “We are hopeful that within a reasonable time our main goal of getting water to the people will be fulfilled.” Councillor Abbas Warasally told the Ladysmith Herald that many organisations and individuals have been working around the clock to bring water to residents. “A resident, Kerwin Mungroo, was kind enough to allow the use of a JoJo tank to supply the water to residents.” Al Imdaad Foundation teams were also distributing water late into the evening hours. “There is a huge cry for water and we have been working to ensure that households can get water. I would like to thank my team for the sacrifice they made on the eve of Eid and for putting the community’s needs first”, said the HOD of Al Imdaad, Abed Karrim, adding that it took long hours to make sure that people could collect water. ALSO READ | Residents in Tongaat, north of Durban likely to have no water for six months Many disgruntled residents also blamed uThukela leaders, saying that water problems were not only caused by the recent floods, but this has been an ongoing problems. “It is only now, that the floods have placed a magnifying glass on the problems.” There have also been problems with water delivery and pumps in the area. eZakheni residents who have been blockading the roads said they will continue to do so until water reaches their homes. “We can’t continue living like this.” 