Dr Reuel Khoza is set to be installed as the University of KwaZulu-Natal’s (UKZN) fourth chancellor at their Westville campus, in Durban, on Wednesday. “Dr Khoza is acknowledged for his deep commitment to transformation, his academic prowess and it goes without saying, his remarkable business acumen. He is also an accomplished author and is fluent in several languages. “We are confident he will serve the University with distinction and we look forward to interacting with him at graduation ceremonies,’ said Normah Zondo, UKZN’s executive director of corporate relations. Khoza was appointed to serve a four-year term in late 2021, but his official installation was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Wednesday’s installation will be followed by the UKZN’s first in-person graduation ceremonies in more than two years. As chancellor, Khoza will serve as the titular head of the University - presiding over graduation ceremonies, conferring degrees, and awarding diplomas and certificates, among other functions. The tenure of the chancellor may not exceed two consecutive terms of office. Khoza is a former chancellor of the University of Limpopo (2007 – 2017) and Medunsa (2007 – 2012). As chancellor of the University of Limpopo he succeeded former president Nelson Mandela at his alma mater; and was pivotal for raising funds for the establishment of the Chair of Audit and Accounting. Khoza is also currently the chairman and major shareholder of Aka Capital (Pty) Limited and president of the Institute of Directors. He was the first black chairman of Eskom Holdings. He later chaired the Public Investment Corporation Ltd (PIC), Nedbank Group Limited, Corobrik (Pty) Limited, Globeleq Qualifications Khoza’s qualifications include BA Honours (Psychology) from the University of the North, now University of Limpopo, a MA Marketing Management degree from the University of Lancaster in the United Kingdom, an Engineering Doctorate (Business) from the University of Warwick in the United Kingdom, a Programme for Management Development (PMD) certificate from Harvard Business School in the USA, an International Programme for Board Members (IPBM) from IMD, Lausanne in Switzerland and a Doctorate of Laws Honoris Causa from Rhodes University, a D Econ Honoris Causa from University of Free State. Doctor of Laws Honoris Causa, from University of Warwick in January 2020.