The provincial secretary of the South African Democratic Teachers Union (Sadtu) in KwaZulu-Natal, Nomarashiya Caluza, graduated with a master’s degree in education from the University of KZN on Monday morning. Her research looked at a case study of a partnership between a school and teachers union led to a marked improvement in matric results. “This partnership was formed to drive an intervention to improve a school which was dismally underperforming in grade 12. The school was sinking in all respects. School performance was low, relations among teachers had reached a state of paralysis, relations between teachers and learners were poor and relations between the school, community and department officials were strained,” explained Caluza. Through this partnership, the school used in the case study improved in the National Senior Certificate (NSC) examinations from a pass rate of 0% to 56% in the first year of the partnership, and from 56% to 100% in the second year. Caluza’s study also found that refocusing the commitment of teachers is key to improving school performance. The incapacity of principals and parents hinders the success of the partnership. The study further established the centrality of the principal in the formation of the school-teacher union partnership and its success in improving the school. “All schools and pupils deserve quality education regardless of their location. There must be resources to aid the delivery of quality education in all schools,” said Caluza. She advised that schools should know the challenges they face which result in poor performance. “There is a need for stakeholders especially teacher unions, parents and the officials of the (education) department to work together in finding solutions that can improve schools. “School leadership and management are central to school improvement. Hence the need for continuous school leadership development. The teacher is central for the success of any pupil.” Caluza also shared tips on how she managed to strike a good balance between studying and her many leadership roles. “Perseverance and working together with your supervisor is key. Stick to the timeframes and attend to your chapter revisions timeously. Decide on a (research) title that you love so that you’ll love your study,” she said.