A Durban woman, Zandile Nsele (40), has been sentenced to life imprisonment for kidnapping and killing her neighbour, Sphumelelo Mzimba (10) in June 2019. The incident took place in the Nazareth area near Pinetown. Nsele was sentenced by the Durban High Court. According to the National Prosecuting Authority, Mzimba lived with her mother in the same area as Nsele. KZN NPA regional spokesperson Natasha Ramkisson-Kara said they knew each other and often visited each other’s homes. Ramkisson-Kara said Nsele, who was unemployed and experiencing financial problems, decided to kidnap the victim and ask for ransom from her parents. She also planned to kill the child and sell her organs and/or soft tissue, said Ramkisson-Kara. She added that Nsele also prepared a place to dispose of the body. Ramkisson-Kara said on the day of the incident, Nsele told the child to come to her house under the pretence that she would take her to the shop to buy chips. “When the child arrived at her house, Nsele restrained her and bound her neck and ankles. Once the child was dead, Nsele removed some of her internal organs and/soft tissue and disposed of the body in the prepared spot. “That night Nsele contacted the child’s mother demanding a sum of R20 000 for the child’s safe return. The next morning she fled to Johannesburg where she made two more calls to the mother demanding R20 000 for her child’s safe return. She was arrested shortly afterwards,” said Ramkisson-Kara. During court proceedings, advocate Sheryl Naidu led cellphone tracing evidence linking Nsele to the ransom messages sent. She said the evidence of the findings of the post mortem confirmed that some of the child’s organs were removed. She said a neighbour also testified that Nsele had asked her to help with digging the hole. “Nsele was sentenced to life for murder, six years imprisonment for kidnapping, nine years imprisonment for the attempted extortion and 10 years’ imprisonment for contravening the National Health Act. The sentences will run concurrently with the life sentence,” she said.