There are mounting fears of the resurgence of Covid-19 in KwaZulu-Natal after the province reported 1742 new cases on Saturday. Nomagugu Simelane, Health MEC in KZN, has sounded alarm bells, following the soaring number of new coronavirus cases and hospitalisations in the province. “After a steady climb over the past week, it is the first time in months that the number of new infections threatens to reach the 2000 mark, and the latest figures have pushed the seven-day average from 414 to 1171,” she said on Sunday EThekwini district accounted for 80% of the province’s total infections, followed by uMgungundlovu (7%) and Ilembe (5%) districts the other hotspot areas. “In terms of our emergency early warning systems, a 10% increase in cases over a seven day moving average will trigger an alert; while a 20% increase in cases over a seven day moving average, which is what we’ve seen, may trigger resurgence,” Simelane said. “So, indeed, these latest statistics are of huge concern to us. Clearly, something is happening. At this stage, we’re not sure whether this is the fifth wave or not, but these developments are cause for concern.” The number of people hospitalised due to Covid-19 also increased from 342 to 437 over the past week. “These latest statistics are of huge concern to us. Clearly, something is happening. At this stage, we’re not sure whether this is the fifth wave or not, but these developments are cause for concern,” she said. Simelane urged people to stay alert, practise all the necessary non-pharmaceutical precautions and get vaccinated against Covid-19. KZN had fully vaccinated 2,756 million people, with a total of 4,463 million yet to get even a single jab. “People who are not vaccinated are more likely to be infected with Covid-19, and more likely to transmit Covid-19 to others. They are also at a much higher risk of dying from the infection compared to vaccinated people,” she said. “Also, when infected, they can be more infectious and get sick for a longer periods of time. We therefore wish to urge them to consider the potential risks that they are putting themselves and their loved ones in - especially our elderly, and those with hypertension, diabetes and other chronic medical conditions – and get vaccinated.” Simelane said there were misconceptions about the safety and effectiveness of Covid-19 vaccines which contributed in the province’s low vaccination rate. “We wish to assure all the people of this country that Covid – 19 vaccines have undergone rigorous scientific testing which has shown that they are, indeed, safe for use,” she said. “They have undergone unprecedented scientific collaborations, which have allowed research, development, and authorisations to be completed in record time – to meet the urgent need for these vaccines while maintaining high safety standards.” Simelane urged those who experienced abnormal or extreme side effects after vaccination to phone the toll free line on 0800 029 999 or log into the SAHPRA med safety App.