Neither poor signage nor insufficient traffic accommodation were the cause of the horrific accident on the N3 on Saturday. The crash claimed 16 lives between the Peter Brown and Chatterton off-ramps in Pietermaritzburg. This is according to the South African National Roads Agency (Sanral). Sanral’s Eastern Regional manager, Dumisani Nkabinde said on Monday that they had an emergency meeting on Sunday to ascertain whether or not traffic accommodation, traffic signs, lighting or concrete barriers were the cause of the accident. Nkabinde said: The multiple vehicle collision involved three trucks, two minibus taxis and five other cars in the early hours of Saturday. Before the crash, emergency services were attending to a truck that had overturned on the N3. The secondary crash resulted in the deaths of those who perished in the ensuing fire. The taxi that was travelling from Johannesburg to Harding in southern KZN and Matatiele, in the Eastern Cape caught alight and 16 people were burnt beyond recognition. A seven-year-old boy was the only survivor from the taxi. According to the department of Transport, the boy’s mother who was still trapped inside the taxi was able to squeeze him out of the window and handed him to a Road Traffic Inspectorate officer before the taxi was engulfed in flames. The boy was taken to Northdale Hospital. Nkabinde said this accident was secondary and its cause could be anything from human error or speed, but could not be blamed on traffic accommodation. He said: A motorist who asked not to be named said he drove past the first accident just before 1 am on Saturday. “What concerns me the most is that I don’t think the officials on the scene properly secured the scene and slowed traffic coming down the hill. The accident had nothing to do with any of the drivers,” said the motorist. He said he believed the second accident could’ve been avoided. Families who lost their relatives are now waiting to be called by authorities — who will conduct DNA tests — so that they will be able to bury their loved ones. One of the families said although it was not their plan to cremate their loved one, it was beyond their control. Kopano Klaas who lost a relative said the whole family was devastated. A taxi driver who asked not to be named said they were shocked and hurt to learn about the accident. “The taxi was in a good condition and the driver was not at fault as he has been driving long distances for a long time. Losing so many lives was devastating and horrific, we are in shock,” said the driver.