Msunduzi Disaster Management had operational staff and disaster officers on standby, after a number of houses and infrastructure were damaged following the heavy rains. The municipality said it has also made arrangements with a number of NGOs and NPOs to assist, should it be necessary. The municipality said Wards 31, 23, 40, 11, 30, 5 and 28 reported incidents of leaking or completely damaged roofs. The Municipality said in ward 28, a mudslide caused damage and cracked walls in some houses. It said arrangements to relocate the residents were made by the disaster management team as the houses cracked. Municipal spokesperson, Ntobeko Mkhize said repairs had been completed on a major cable fault in Hilton. She said more cable faults were affecting parts of Pentrich Road and Oribi Village. Although these were not associated with the storm, they are being attended to by the electricity unit. “The water unit has been on site attending to burst water pipes; a challenge was experienced in locating the burst and leaking pipes due to the amount of rainfall. However, three major burst pipes were located and attended to on Sunday as the rain had subsided. “A major main pipe in Azalea collapsed again as a result of the storm, affecting portions of Willowfontein and surrounding [areas]. “More burst pipes were reported this morning affecting parts of Panorama, Northdale and parts of Boughton and these are being inspected. A number of overflowing sewers were experienced and assessments are being undertaken,” said Mkhize. She said road blockages were reported mainly in the CBD. Due to the Municipality’s ongoing programme for cleaning and maintenance of storm water drains, the number of stormwater blockages has decreased, said Mkhize. She said a number of temporary structures have been constructed in different wards as part of relief efforts following previous disasters. “The municipality appeals to the members of the public to avoid sharing false information being circulated on social media of incidents related to the rainfall, as this causes unnecessary panic. “Disaster management teams continue to respond to numbers of incidents of flooding in various areas,” added Mkhize.