The University of KwaZulu-Natal has congratulated Professor Tulio de Oliveira on his nomination for the TIME 100: a list of individuals who have made the most important contributions to our world. This prestigious nomination is identified and voted for by TIME magazine’s international network of editors, thought leaders and past recipients of the prestigious award. According to a statement released by the University, the list is now in its nineteenth year, and it recognizes the impact, innovation, and achievement of the world’s most influential individuals. Professor De Oliveira has been recognized for his work in the field of genomics and epidemiology. “In November 2021, Professor de Oliveira led the multidisciplinary team of researchers and scientists who discovered the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 which quickly became the dominant global variant of the virus,” read the statement. The university mentioned that it was De Oliveira and his team that disclosed that the initially dubbed ‘South African variant’ did not in fact originate in South Africa, although it was discovered there and that the safety measures seemed more punitive than preventative. Amongst other things, Professor De Oliveira, is the head of Stellenbosch University’s Centre for Epidemic Response and Innovation (CERI) and University of KwaZulu-Natal Research Innovation and Sequencing Platform (KRISP) for which he has already raised more than R300m in funding. “He is the recipient of numerous awards and accolades, among them the Gold Medal from the South African Medical Research Council, Top 10 most influential scientists in 2021 from Nature, Top 10 Technological Breakthroughs of 2022 from MIT’s (Massachusetts Institute of Technology) Technological Review, and the Batho Pele Excellence Awards for public service in South Africa in March 2022,” read the statement. Professor De Oliveira has been described as passionate about leading the research and fight against epidemics from Africa, and as a person who frequently highlights the importance and value of local and international collaboration in battling the pandemic. In Addition, TIME 100 list also includes his past PhD Student, Dr. Sikhulile Moyo who is a Deputy Laboratory Director at the Botswana-Harvard AIDS Institute Partnership (BHP) and a research associate with the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. Professor De Oliveira said that he is extremely proud that Dr. Moyo was a PhD student of his. “The fact southern Africa produced two of Time’s Most Influential People in the World is proof that the university and our group is deeply committed to truth, to developing very high levels of scientific research in South Africa, and in Africa, and most importantly to develop and capacitate the next leaders in the continent,” said Professor De Oliveira.