With Covid-19 infections on the rise in KwaZulu-Natal, Health MEC, Nomagugu Simelane, has pleaded with the province’s citizens to get vaccinated. Tabling her budget in the KZN Legislature on Tuesday, Simelane said the provincial government was concerned that a large section of the province’s population remains unvaccinated. “As of [Monday], our province has lost 16 097 due to Covid-19, and over the latest 24-hour period, we have registered 662 new cases, bringing the total number of infections in the province to 690 859. We remain concerned by the low uptake of Covid-19 vaccines.” Out of KZN’s entire population only 2,7 million people have been vaccinated, with about 4,5 million people yet to be vaccinated. This is concerning because the vast majority of those who’ve died due to Covid-19 were not vaccinated. “So, those who’ve not yet received their jab are exposing themselves — and their loved ones — to possible severe illness or death,” she said. The department, which has been allocated a budget of R49 billion by the provincial Treasury, is at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19. Simelane said the bulk of the budget will be used to jack up its health facilities across the province to enable the department to among other things, respond to the Covid-19 virus.  “The major focus is on the rehabilitation to concrete roof structures, replacements of dilapidated roof structures and asbestos roofs to the value of R91 million. These include the replacement of roofs at Northdale Hospital to the value R 40 million [and] the asbestos eradication and associated roofing works at Vryheid Hospital to the value of R13,7 million,” she said. Simelane tabled the department’s budget amid concerns that the province’s health facilities might not be able to cope should the current Covid-19 infections become more deadly. The MEC said it was important for the province’s citizens to change their mindset on vaccines for the war against the virus to be won. “We continue to call on communities to ignore all the myths and misconceptions about the vaccine, because they’re simply not true. The vaccine has been scientifically tested, and found to be safe.”