Msunduzi has denied allegations of nepotism and political interference in the recruitment of over 100 general assistants. This comes after the DA alleged that ANC councillors submitted lists of preferred candidates from their wards for the positions. The opposition party has also asked the recently appointed administrator, Martin Sithole, to investigate the matter. He confirmed to The Witness that he has asked for a report from the acting municipal manager. “These allegations are false and seem to be part of political ploy to bring the municipality into disrepute,” said Msunduzi spokesperson, Ntobeko Mkhize on Saturday. She said the municipality follows a fair and transparent recruitment process that was in line with the employment and selection policy that was approved by the council in October 2021. Mkhize said: With regards to the recruitment process for the general assistants posts, she said an advertisement together with the application form went out on February 8. “It is worth mentioning that the advertisement prohibited canvassing of councillors and that should there be found to have happened, those applicants would be disqualified,” Mkhize said. She said applications in response to the advertised posts were received in big numbers between February 9 and 14. During this period, she said, Msunduzi could confidently say that there were “no queries pertaining to the advertised posts and or complaints from potential applicants that there was interference of any sort, especially from councillors.” Msunduzi received 16 000 applications for the posts. Mkhize said: She said the panels sat on April 28 and May 4 to select potential candidates from the main list of 16000 applications and then candidates were contacted to invite them to attend interviews that were scheduled for May 5 at the Athletics Track Stadium. “The interviews went very well, some of the candidates did not pitch and some of the interviews had to be rescheduled,” said Mkhize. She said the interview process would be finalised on Monday. She said Msunduzi could confirm that there was no known evidence suggesting that councillors interfered with the process. “It is against this background that the municipality is fearless of any unfounded allegations of interference in the process and also that the allegations are seen as meant to undermine the good work that has been done thus far...”