While plans to rebuild infrastructure damaged by the KwaZulu-Natal floods are on track, Premier Sihle Zikalala warned residents that it will take some time to complete the work. Addressing the media during the tabling of the Premier’s department’s budget in the provincial legislature on Thursday, Zikalala said the provincial government will be requesting funds from the national government for the rebuilding. “As the provincial government, we will be getting a full report on the impact of the flood during the course of this week. “We will then forward the report to the national government, by latest on Monday,” he said. Zikalala’s announcement comes as the province’s flood victims, particularly those struggling to move around as roads were washed away by the rains, are becoming disgruntled over government delays in rebuilding infrastructure. However, Zikalala said the extent of the damage on roads was such that it will take several months to fix. “In some areas, it will take more than a year,” he said. There have been concerns that the province, whose finances have been shrinking in recent years, would be forced to shift funds from key programmes, should the national government fail to step in and fund the rebuilding project. However, Zikalala said the fact that President Cyril Ramaphosa recently reclassified the KZN flood disaster as a national disaster meant that the provincial government no longer has to carry the entire financial burden. “The reclassification provides for more resources for rebuilding initiatives and enables all three spheres of government to work together through the District Development Model to accelerate the recovery and rebuilding of KwaZulu-Natal and fast-track relief efforts,” he said. The national government is under pressure to ensure that funds meant for the disaster relief are not lost to corruption, as was the case with Covid-19 relief funds, where provincial government officials colluded with service providers to divert the funds to certain individuals. In an attempt to ensure that corruption in the provincial government’s fund does not recur, the national government is setting up mechanisms to monitor the flood relief spending. The Auditor General and an ad hoc parliamentary committee have been roped in as part of efforts to ensure that funds meant for the rebuilding of damaged infrastructure are not abused. As part of additional measures to counter corruption within the provincial government, Zikalala told MPLs that the Premier’s Department has allocated R35 million to its forensic investigations and integrity management unit. “Through the forensic audit unit, the OTP (Office of The Premier) has intensified the fight against fraud and corruption. He said: While Ramaphosa and Zikalala indicated that national government would carry some of the costs linked to rebuilding infrastructure, DA provincial leader, Francois Rodgers claimed that treasury MEC, Nomusa Dube-Ncube, informed him that the national government would not be contributing any funds. “The MEC further confirmed that KZN’s government will have to re-prioritise its budget to find the R1 billion over the next three years in order to deal with this,” he said. Dube-Ncube declined to comment. “After engaging the MEC on this, it is our view that we can’t make any further comment until this issue is exhausted further with the cabinet and government structures,” her spokesperson, Nathi Oliphant, said.