The South African National Roads Agency SOC Limited (SANRAL) has announced that the N2, between Umzinto and Umgababa, on the South Coast, will reopen on Sunday. The route has been closed as a result of the April floods. Speaking during a recent walkabout on the N2, Minister of Transport Fikile Mbalula, said that his department and provincial government will contribute R5 billion towards the repairs of road infrastructure in the province. Mbalula said Sanral was designated as the lead agency to lead the extensive work required to repair roads in the province, starting with an immediate focus on the N2 and N3 freeways. Since then, said Mbalula, Sanral has worked with the provincial and municipal authorities in KwaZulu- Natal to advance the rebuilding and rehabilitation work required to restore normality. To get the traffic back on the road again, a temporary lane is being constructed to get the northbound carriageway reopened, said Sanral. It said this will assist in further investigations and getting contractors onto the site to start the construction by the end of May. It said construction is estimated to take between six to eight months on this section to be completed. Ravi Ronny from Sanral said the far-left lane on the on the N2 on the northern carriageway collapsed and moved down the embankment. “This resulted in a serious safety issue hence the closure of this section. As a short-term measure, traffic is diverted to the provincial network to the R197 and R102,” said Ronny. Ronny said when the contractors get on site, they will remove the sunken part of the road and work from bottom up to the top. He said these contracts take between 12 and 15 months but they will have an accelerated programme to try and finish quickly. Sanral said a consolidated list of affected infrastructure has been compiled and further assessment on the field is still being undertaken by the Sanral team of engineers. This has enabled Sanral and the province to prioritise repairs to road infrastructure where communities were completely cut off and others forced to use the national roads and incur costs, said Sanral. “Our interventions are multi-faceted, ranging from measures to alleviate the economic impact on road users to rebuilding and rehabilitation of infrastructure. Following the declaration of the state of national disaster, I made a request to the Sanral board to consider suspending toll fees in seriously affected communities,” said Mbalula. Mbalula said the board took a resolution to suspend the payment of toll fees at the oThongathi and Mvoti plazas on the N2 toll route. He said this suspension, at a cost of an estimated R400 million over the 18-month period, is meant to assist communities affected by the closure of alternative routes damaged by the floods.