Walking into the Graduation Hall and stepping onto the podium to be capped and hooded was as much a tremendous achievement for Voloshni Annamallay as it was for the University of KwaZulu-Natal (UKZN), said the institution. UKZN has congratulated its first-ever deaf graduate. “My legs were shaking as I got closer to the stage. Wow! I felt overwhelmed and honoured,” said a tearful Annamallay who graduated with an Honours Degree in Criminology and Forensic Studies – making her the first Deaf person to acquire both undergraduate and postgraduate qualifications at UKZN using South African Sign Language as a means of communication. Annamallay’s graduation ceremony was held at the UKZN Westville campus on Monday. Proud parents Popsy and Siven Annamallay, who attended the ceremony said they stood up to cheer and applaud as loudly as they possibly could. “I couldn’t hold back my tears. We are so proud of our daughter,” said mother, Popsy. “Twenty-four years ago - the moment I came to know that my daughter who was just one-and-a-half years old at the time, was never going to be able to hear again - I couldn’t imagine her future. I didn’t know if she’d go to school let alone university. I thought she’d fall by the wayside but as she got older, she got more and more academically inclined. She just grew. She never failed a year of school. She showed me she’d do well but I never realised she’d be this great woman she’s become,” said Popsy. Breaking through tremendous barriers during her academic journey, UKZN said Annamallay is a role model for all people with disabilities who dream of attaining a Higher Education qualification. “I am able. You are able,” is her rallying call to the youth in South Africa’s hard of hearing community. “You can do it, nothing is stopping you from what you aspire to become or do, you must simply believe that you can and make and take the necessary steps to achieve your goals,” said Annamallay. “Yes, I am deaf and faced many challenges during my studies but I made it through all the way from my first-year of studies until now. I can do anything except hear!” she added. A passion to help seek justice for victims of crime in South Africa led Annamallay to enrol in Criminology studies, “I have a vision for a brighter and safer country for all people and I will work towards making that vision a reality.” She described her learning experience as “overwhelming and daunting. It was quite difficult to adjust at the beginning, being in classes full of hearing individuals and also navigating the social aspect of being on campus as well as finding my own way of communicating with individuals who had not been in close contact with a Deaf person before. “I am thankful to have made many friends and acquaintances from the Disability Unit and the University at large, proving that Deaf people can take up space and easily integrate with individuals from different walks of life. Communication may have been a barrier but the willingness of people to learn how to communicate with me was very comforting.” UKZN’s executive director for corporate relations, Normah Zondo, said the Institution was extremely proud of Annamallay and her highly commendable achievement. “Annamallay has not only achieved highly for herself but also for UKZN and the deaf community as a whole. Her academic journey has also given the University critical experience in supporting future Deaf students.” UKZN disability co-ordinator, Nevil Balakrishna, who has worked closely with Annamallay since the start of her academic journey in 2016 praised her for being one of only a few Deaf young people to gain admission and complete studies at tertiary level in South Africa. Annamallay has applied to study further and is also looking to step into the working world.