The weather service warned on Friday that more flooding could hit KZN this weekend. The SA Weather Service (Saws) said the cold front that was expected to pass through the province on Friday afternoon would be accompanied by a steep upper air trough that will develop into a cut-off low on Saturday. As a result, widespread showers and thundershowers are expected over most parts of KZN, but these will be scattered over the south-western parts. The weather office is expecting persistent rainfall over south-eastern parts of KZN into the evening on Saturday that could result in flooding. Areas expected to be affected include eThekwini, Mkhambathini, Ray Nkonyeni, Umdoni and Umzumbe. The weather office also issued an Orange level 5 weather warning for these areas — eThekwini, KwaDukuza, Mandeni, Maphumulo, Mtubatuba, Ndwedwe, Ray Nkonyeni, Umdoni, uMhlathuze, uMlalazi, Umzumbe. Saws said it expects a low-pressure weather system to move eastwards, resulting in cold to very cold conditions with widespread showers and thundershowers expected over most parts of the province. Saws said: Residents can expect flooding of roads and bridges as well as poor driving conditions, flooding of settlements and damage to property and other infrastructure. Disruption due to sinkholes, mudslides, rockfalls and soil erosion are possible. Major disruption of traffic flow due to roads being closed or flooded is also expected, warned Saws. If possible, residents are urged to stay indoors and off the roads, avoid crossing rivers and swollen streams where water is above your ankles. If trapped in a vehicle during a flood, abandon it and climb to higher ground. In buildings, move valuables to a safe place above the expected flood level. In rural areas move livestock to higher grounds eThekwini Mayor Mxolisi Kaunda has placed disaster management teams on standby. Residents living in low lying areas are urged to evacuate to safer areas, as incidents of mudslides are expected. The municipality said the public must take note that the ground is still saturated following the heavy rains experienced in April. There have also been reports of snow predictions for this weekend on the Berg of KZN. Chairperson of the Central Berg Association Megan Bedingham said the weekend does not look so good for them. Bedingham said: She said they usually get more bookings during the summer because of the lovely weather conditions. Bedingham added that they have a big fundraiser planned for this weekend, but are concerned that participants might cancel the hikes because of the weather conditions. “The fundraiser is called the Big 5 hike, where we have about 95 hikers who will be hosted at the resorts and each hiker has had to raise R8 000 towards our education project.”