Legendary actress and playwright Thembi Mtshali-Jones is set to receive an honorary doctorate from the Durban University of Technology (DUT) on May 16. The university will confer Mtshali-Jones with an honorary Doctor of Philosophy in Visual and Performing Arts qualification. Professor Runette Kruger, executive dean in the faculty of arts and design at DUT described Mtshali-Jones as a giant in her field citing that the university looked forward to much collaboration and engagement with the star for the benefit of the students. Mtshali-Jones said she felt deeply honoured that she would be joining the personalities and legends she highly respected who previously received honorary doctorates from DUT. “I have been highly decorated in almost all corners of the world where I have worked. This gave me a sense of achievement and pride. However, as it kept happening, I started to feel a sense of inadequacy. I had many questions I could not answer. As it happened then, I am now sure of where that emptiness stems from, despite being showered with all manners of praises and awards. The reason-being is that: no recognition, no matter how much weight and wealth it carries, can ever beat a simple gesture, such as a Thank You from your own city and more so, by a reputable institution such as DUT,” said Mtshali-Jones. The award-winning Mtshali-Jones, who currently stars as MaNdlovu on ETV’s drama, Imbewu: The Seed, was born in 1949 and grew up in KwaMashu Township, Durban. Her long and accomplished television career includes starring in the popular sitcoms Sgudi Snaysi and Stokvel which was nominated for an International Emmy in 2004. She was discovered by Welcome Msomi and performed in the original Umabatha, the Zulu adaptation of Macbeth in the 1970’s. She thereafter joined the acclaimed musical Ipi Tombi in which she took the lead female role as Mama Tembu. She has toured the world with Ipi Tombi, including London’s West End and New York’s Broadway. Whilst in the US, Mtshali-Jones met with accomplished South African artists, Hugh Masekela and Miriam Makeba. She worked with both of them and together these three artists toured Europe and Africa. In 1998, Mtshali-Jones a residency at Galluadette University, Washington DC and in 2004 a second residency at University of Louisville. On her return to South Africa, Mtshali-Jones joined Sipho Gumede and created a five-piece band called ‘Peace’. She thereafter joined the Market Theatre in Johannesburg in 1987 where she co-wrote and performed in several theatre productions such as Black and White Follies, Have You Seen Zandile? and others. Mtshali-Jones has been a juror for the International Emmy Awards for Film and Television since 2009 to date.