A video inviting people to collect their license cards from Rossburgh Driver License Testing Centre in Durban, KwaZulu-Natal, has caused a stir from many. The video, making its rounds on social media, shows a number of driver license cards on the ground. The voice on the video is inviting those waiting for their license cards from the Rossburgh Driver Licence Testing Centre to collect them.  A number of people said they were left confused since the testing centre had been closed following the KwaZulu-Natal floods. A man told The Witness that he has been waiting for his license since January and was shocked to hear they had to collect them. “The state they were in was terrible. I was already worried about my license when I heard the testing centre was flooded. That video just made things worse that my friend and I immediately went there only to find it was closed,” he said. The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Transport spokesperson, Kwanele Ncalane, said the department has instituted an internal investigation into the video. “The unauthorised video is disrespectfully inviting members of the public to come collect their licenses. This manner of approach is not in line with the Batho-Pele values that the department promotes. With the Rossburgh DLTC currently under clean up operations we currently have more than 100 people on the premises, including the Expanded Public Works (EPWP) members who are part of the clean-up team,” said Ncalane. He said the department has tasked the management of the station to investigate the origins of the video. The head of department, Siboniso Mbhele, said that public documentation such as the application of learners and licence cards should also be handled with care even in an event of a disaster. “The station remains closed with some services relocated to other offices. We are in the process of assessing the extent of damage of some of our documentation before deciding on which people we can be able to issue their documents, and which will need to restart the process. However, all the necessary communication will be done in the correct platforms and in a correct manner. The video being circulated is therefore not an official government communique and should therefore not be treated as such,” said Mbhele. He said they have directed the management of Rossburgh to do an investigation as to where the video originated and to determine who was behind the ‘mischievous act’. He added they were hoping to resume the collection of the cards this week but that was subjected to the safety assessment which will have to be conducted.