Ugu South Coast Tourism is expecting a good Sardine Run this month. It said in a statement on Tuesday that the “subtropical paradise” provides seaside visitors with front-row seats to the world-renowned spectacle that features billions of sardines followed in hot pursuit by marine life in all shapes and sizes. “The Sardine Run is a highlight on the KZN South Coast’s tourism calendar, and we’re looking forward to welcoming visitors who can finally experience this natural display after two years in lockdown and the devastating recent floods,” said CEO of Ugu South Coast Tourism, Phelisa Mangcu. Dr Ryan Daly of the Oceanographic Research Institute in Durban, and the South African Institute for Aquatic Biodiversity agreed. “What we know about the sardines so far is that there appears to be a lot in the Western Cape with sightings in the Plettenberg Bay area. We know they’re down in the Cape, the question is will they come up here?” asked Daly. Although recent floods in KZN caused a surge in water and debris into the Indian Ocean, Daly said the impact on the ocean has largely passed, and it shouldn’t impact the Sardine Run which is expected to arrive around May. He said the temperature was the main thing that dictates the timing and extent of the movement up the coast. It has been an unusual couple of years in that they’ve been very wet. “But 2020 and 2021 were relatively good Sardine Runs, both of which were similarly wet being La Niña years. It’s holding the same pattern, so I think we’re going to get another good one. But we’ll have to wait and see,” he said. Greg Thompson, operations manager at the KZN Sharks Board, said they would start their Sardine Run monitoring in the second week of May. “Our first few flights are normally through to East London to try and gauge how far north the sardines have moved. This is to ensure that our shark safety gear is removed well before the first pockets reach KZN waters,” he said. Billions of these silverfish move northwards towards warmer waters, swimming past the KZN South Coast from May.