The Justice and Correctional Services Portfolio Committee has requested Minister Ronald Lamola to implement a recent labour court order that found in favour of KZN regional commissioner Mnikelwa Nxele. He has been on suspension with full pay since 2016, with his salary topping R1 million per annum. The order lifts the suspension so that he can return to work. ALSO READ | Another blow for KZN prisons boss, Nxele In a letter, dated May 7, and addressed to Lamola, the committee raised a concern about the years that Nxele’s matter has been dragging. “Your office will appreciate that this matter has been going on for several years and there has been protracted legal proceedings in that regard. Upon being approached, the committee requested the department and Mr Nxele to submit all the relevant information regarding the case. All the relevant documents received have been submitted to Parliament’s legal services to provide the committee with a legal opinion on the case. “The legal opinion was obtained and it became clear that the case has been delayed for far too long with no attempts of holding a disciplinary hearing from the side of the department,” reads the letter which The Witness has seen. ALSO READ | More drama as KZN prison boss Nxele is suspended again It further stated that the committee recently held a meeting on May 6, concerning the matter. “While the committee resolved that it will not get involved in part B (the merits) of the dispute (between Nxele and the department) that will soon be ventilated before a court of law on the basis of the sub judice rule, it would, in exercising its oversight role, write to the department to advise that the most recent labour court order should be implemented within seven working days starting on May 9,” it reads. Nxele was suspended by former national commissioner Zach Modise on allegations of insubordination and failure to implement instructions of the national office. The matter had since been dragging and on numerous occasions, Nxele had challenged his suspension at the Labour Court and received rulings in his favour. The department, however, would refuse him entry to his office and on numerous occasions armed officers from outside the province were brought in to prevent him from accessing his office.