The pupils of Weston Agricultural College, in Mooi River, are celebrating after winning the sought-after champion commercial animal on the hoof prize in the Royal Show steers competition. They were awarded the General Arnott Perpetual Memorial Challenge Trophy, the Royal Agricultural Society Cash Prize of R1 000, Royal Show Medallion, rosette and sash, and R1 000 from the KwaZulu-Natal Red Meat Producers Organisation for their efforts at the weekend. Earlier in the competition Weston also picked up the prize for showing the best group of four steers, the best halter-trained steers under 400 kg, the best halter-trained steers between 400 kg and 450 kg, and the top two halter-trained steers over 450 kg. Students from Cedara College of Agriculture finished second in the under 400 kg and 400 kg-450 kg categories for halter-trained steers. In the competition for unhalter-trained steers, it was Ferreira Bonsmara that swept the board, winning the below 400 kg, 400 kg-450 kg and over 450 kg categories. The stud also took home the prize for reserve champion commercial animal on the hoof. In the future farmers’ competition, it was pupils from Cedara who snapped up the majority of the prizes. Thabo Molebale received R300 and a Royal Show medallion for having the best animal on show, a Simbra, while Ntokozo Dlamini was named the best handler at this year’s Royal Show, wining R150. Meanwhile, for the first time in many years the Royal Agricultural Society’s sheep section played host to both Boergoats and Kalahari Reds in their goat championships. Top honours in the South African Boergoat Regional Championships, held on Saturday, were shared by three breeders. Free State breeder Ilse Lombard, owner of the Ilse Lombard Boerbokstoet was delighted when her senior ewe was named the 2022 RAS Supreme Champion. The team from the Soetdorings Boergoat Stud in Hoopstad, Free State, meanwhile enjoyed a double celebration, with their ewe finishing runner up to the RAS Supreme Champion and their ram being named this year’s Supreme Champion at the Royal Showgrounds in Pietermaritzburg. The reserve to the Supreme Champion Ram was bred by Mapstone Smallstock from Baynesfield. Mapstone also showed top form in the Kalahari Red championships, winning seven categories during the course of the day. Their awards included junior and reserve junior champion ram, reserve senior champion ram, the reserve grand champion ram, reserve junior champion ewe, senior champion ewe, and grand champion ewe. The Anana Kalahari Red Goat Stud based in Hoopstad bred the senior champion ram, the grand champion ram, junior champion ewe, reserve senior champion ewe, and reserve grand champion ewe. On Sunday, the RAS sheep section hosted the fat lamb championships and it was good to see two Royal Show stalwarts Gert Lotter and Regina Harmse back in the city and fighting it out for the top spot. The BKB Floating Trophy, RAS cash prize of R600, Royal Show medallion, rosette and sash for the champion lamb went to Harmse, with the reserve prize of R300, a rosette and sash going to Lotter.