A new report from the Donkey Sanctuary has uncovered the vast online illegal trading network sending millions of donkeys to their deaths. International organisation The Donkey Sanctuary said donkeys have become the most trafficked animal in the world, with more than two million slaughtered for their skins every year. The sanctuary launched a new awareness film Innocent Lives to highlight the impact of the trade on donkeys and the millions of communities and individuals that rely on them. The sanctuary said the demand for ejiao, a traditional Chinese remedy made using donkey skins, and the collapse of the domestic Chinese donkey population has led to a spike in trafficking as skin traders look for supply at any cost. The sanctuary said: The new animated film, developed by independent creative agency ArthurLondon and available to view on YouTube, follows the story of a young Ethiopian girl whose working donkey is stolen in the night by skin traders. She represents the thousands of women and girls who are also victims of the donkey skin trade, as they are often left to take on the work that would otherwise have been done by their donkey. It is estimated that up to 10 million communities in the developing world rely on donkeys to support their livelihoods. The sanctuary said ending the donkey skin trade has been made even more difficult in recent years as the practice has moved online, with a recent study by The Donkey Sanctuary, Oxford University, Said Business School and WildCRU confirming that it has also become embedded with other illegal wildlife trading activities. Currently, the sanctuary said thousands of live listings for donkey skins exist on eCommerce and social media sites around the world. Marianne Steele, acting CEO of the Donkey Sanctuary, said the inhumane and unregulated donkey skin trade is among the biggest global threats to donkeys today. Steele said: “We wanted this film to highlight how the donkey skin trade impacts both the donkeys themselves and the communities who raise and rely on them around the world. It is our hope that by encouraging greater awareness of this cruel practice we will be able to reach our goal of ending the donkey skin trade forever,” she said.