Springboks coach Jacques Nienaber expressed his satisfaction with the progress made within the national structures over the last month. The team wrapped up a series of alignment camps on Thursday in preparation for the 2022 international season. Coaches hosted their first alignment camp in Durban in April before heading north to meet with a few overseas-based players. They wrapped up this stage of their preparation with a five-day camp in Cape Town on Thursday. Nienaber and his assistant coaches touched on several on-field and off-field aspects that will be important for the forthcoming season. They will also have an eye on the 2023 Rugby World Cup in France, as the Springboks look to retain their ranking as the number one team in the world and continue putting the building blocks in place to defend their title at the international event next year. The team will kick off their 2022 season with three Tests against Wales in the Castle Lager Incoming Series. Thereafter, they will launch into the Castle Lager Rugby Championship, where they will face the All Blacks in back-to-back home Tests. This will be followed by a tour to Australia and Argentina. They will then return home for their final Test against the Pumas in Durban in September. Nienaber said in a statement: “... The first alignment in Durban touched on the team’s programme this season and in the lead-up to the World Cup in France, as well as a broad overview of what worked last season and what we can improve on ... “[We] zoomed into more detail at this camp, focusing on the key areas for the team going forward as we turn our attention to the international season and further ahead to the Rugby World Cup. “I’m very happy with the players’ enthusiasm and their desire to keep learning and fine-tuning the areas of their game that could make a big difference in the quality of our rugby,” he said. With the alignment camp box ticked, Nienaber said the next step would be to select a squad within the next few weeks for their training camp in Pretoria from Monday, June 6. The squad will remain at the camp until the conclusion of their first Test against Wales at Loftus Versfeld on Saturday, July 2. Nienaber said: “These three back-to-back Tests, in turn, will lay an important foundation for our Castle Lager Rugby Championship campaign. So it is vital that we get the minor detail right from the outset,” he added.