The weather service has warned that more flooding could hit the already flood-stricken province of KwaZulu-Natal at the weekend. The SA Weather Service (Saws) said the cold front that is expected to pass through KZN on Friday afternoon will be accompanied by a steep upper trough that will develop into a cut-off low on Saturday. As a result, widespread showers and thundershowers are expected over most parts of the province but these will be scattered over the south-western parts. The weather office is expecting persistent rainfall over south eastern parts of KZN from Friday evening into Saturday evening that could result in flooding. Areas expected to be affected include eThekwini, Mkhambathini, Ray Nkonyeni, Umdoni and Umzumbe. The weather office also issued an Orange level 5 weather warning
for these areas; eThekwini, KwaDukuza, Mandeni, Maphumulo, Mtubatuba, Ndwedwe,
Ray Nkonyeni, Umdoni, uMhlathuze, uMlalazi, Umzumbe. Saws said it expects a low-pressure weather system to move
eastwards resulting in cold to very cold conditions with widespread showers and
thundershowers expected over most parts of the province. “Models are indicating
a significant amount of rainfall that is expected to persist the entire day
over northern parts and eastern parts of KZN [on Saturday] that could result in
localised flooding and significant impacts,” said the weather office. Residents can be expect flooding of roads and bridges as well as poor driving conditions, flooding of settlements and damage to property and infrastructure. Disruption due to sinkholes, mudslides, rockfalls and soil erosion are possible. Major disruption of traffic flow due to roads being closed or flooded is also expected, warned Saws. If possible, residents are urged to stay indoors and off the roads, avoid crossing rivers and swollen streams where water is above your ankles. If trapped in a vehicle during a flood, abandon it and climb to higher ground. In buildings, move valuables to a safe place above the expected flood level. In rural areas move livestock to higher grounds Residents in low lying areas urged to move to safer areas ahead of KZN’s predicted disruptive rains eThekwini Mayor Mxolisi Kaunda has placed disaster management teams on standby after possible heavy rains have been predicted in KZN over the weekend. The disruptive heavy rain is also expected to lead to localised flooding. Residents living in low lying areas, are urged to evacuate to safer areas, as incidents of mudslides are expected. The municipality said the public must take note that the ground is still saturated following the heavy rains experienced in April.