Authorities are still investigating the cause of a horrific N3 crash that claimed 16 lives between, Peter Brown and Chatterton off-ramps, in Pietermaritzburg on Saturday. According to a preliminary report released by the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Transport, 16 people were burnt beyond recognition after a multiple vehicle collision involving three trucks, two minibus taxis and five other cars. Only a seven-year-old boy survived. The department’s report said: The mother was among the 16 people who died. The boy was rushed to Northdale hospital. A vehicle that was used by the RTI officer that is said to have taken the boy from his mother was also burnt but the officer was unharmed. One of the taxis was ferrying passengers from Johannesburg to Harding in southern KZN and Matatiele, in the Eastern Cape. One of the people who died was Mathuso Manyukule (64) who was travelling to Matatiele for a relative’s unveiling ceremony. Manyukule’s brother-in-law, Mathetha Ranqabang said their family was still in shock on Sunday and the pictures of the accidents that were shared on social media would forever be a painful reminder for them. “Before the accident, he called to inform the family that they were stuck in traffic due to an accident. Shortly after that, I received a call from someone at the taxi rank in Johannesburg saying that the taxi has also been involved in an accident,” said Ranqabang. He said they were devastated by the news and they could not help but imagine what Manyukule and other people in the crash went through when the vehicles caught fire. He said: Ranqabang said the children were heartbroken and one of them was struggling to study for exams. “The children will have to travel to KwaZulu-Natal for the DNA tests then we’ll know the next step and arrange a funeral,” said Ranqabang. He said there were other families in Matatiele who were as broken as their’s for losing their loved ones.  Mi7 National Group Emergency Services were among the first responders. One of the paramedics who asked not to be named said it was terrifying and paramedics who were at the scene would be sent for trauma counselling. “The fire was extremely quick. A lot of people were horrified at what they were witnessing, but there was nothing they could do,” said the paramedic. He said this was the worst scene he had witnessed in Pietermaritzburg in the 21 years he had worked as a paramedic. Pietermaritzburg truck drivers also expressed their condolences to the families that lost their loved ones in the crash. On Sunday, about 30 drivers stood on the side of the N3, near Hilton Hospital, where they paid tribute to those who died. They could not go to the scene of the accident because there were fears that it would cause traffic congestion. Gugu Sokhela of the All Truck Driver’s Forum and Allied South Africans said the accident happened while they were still in talks with the government about hiring foreign national drivers. “Many of these drivers don’t know the road signs and they are buying drivers licenses. Most of the truck accidents are caused by the foreign national drivers because [they] don’t know the traffic laws of this country and the road signs,” said Sithole. He said they wanted government to intervene so there would be fewer accidents caused by trucks on SA roads. “We believe that if the government listens to us, such accidents could be avoided. There was already an accident here and the driver should’ve known what to do and limit the speed as per the rules,” said Sithole. Three people died and eight others were injured in a horrific car crash on the N2, northbound before Spaghetti junction, in Durban, on Friday night. A fourth person, a teenager, died on Saturday morning. Spokesperson for ALS paramedics medical services, Garrith Jamieson said it is believed that an SUV carrying an entire family somehow lost control and crashed into the rear of a truck. “One male and two females from the SUV were found to be severely entrapped in the wreckage with fatal injuries. They were declared dead on scene,” said Jamieson. He said the eThekwini Fire Department had to use the jaws of life and other hydraulic tools to free them from the wreckage. Jamieson said: 