Despite the ANC Eastern Cape conference confirming President Cyril Ramaphosa as the front-runner, ANC members in Pietermaritzburg still believe the party’s presidential race is yet to be settled. Ramaphosa, whose candidature has already been endorsed by the Northern Cape and Mpumalanga provinces after his supporters emerged victorious at the recent provincial conferences, on Monday received a boost when his key supporter, Oscar Mabuyane — who is also the Eastern Cape Premier — was elected ANC provincial chairperson. However, despite the writing on the wall, some ANC members in the party’s Moses Mabhida Region, which includes Pietermaritzburg, believe the presidential race is still wide open. The supporters of former health minister Zweli Mkhize’s, who is tipped to challenge Ramaphosa at the ANC national conference scheduled to take place in December, are confident that the region’s branches will back him should he decide to stand. “People in this region have not forgotten about how comrade Zweli used his positions, including that of KZN premier and ANC treasurer-general to put this region on the map. “As we speak, there are currently scores of individuals from this region who are running successful businesses after he assisted them to set up the businesses. Irrespective of what happens in other provinces, the comrade remains a serious contender,” one of Mkhize’s key supporters in the region said. Mkhize, who in recent months has been holding meetings with ANC members across the province, hails from Willowfontein in Pietermaritzburg. With Ramaphosa making inroads in several ANC provinces, it is critical for Mkhize to get the backing of his home region of Moses Mabhida. However, in what could be interpreted as a setback for Mkhize, former ANC MP Sizani Dlamini-Dubazana, who also hails from the Moses Mabhida Region, appears to be keen on contesting Ramaphosa. Dlamini-Dubazana, who is also a former member of the ANC KwaZulu-Natal provincial executive committee (PEC), spent the weekend in Pietermaritzburg and was welcomed by a throng of party supporters. While some of Mkhize’s supporters view Dlamini-Dubazana’s bid as something likely to divide the region ahead of the ANC national conference, ANC Msunduzi councillor Sandile Dlamini said it was important for her to be given an opportunity to stand. “It should be remembered that ANC policies don’t only give branches a voice when it comes to the elections of party leaders, it also gives members the right to stand for any ANC leadership position. Personally, I think it will be a good thing for the Moses Mabhida region if she can stand ...” he said. 